================================================================================
AUSTENDER DETAILS: Current ATM View - CSIRORFT2026019
================================================================================

Detail URL: https://www.tenders.gov.au/Atm/Show/c26648f6-b84c-40dd-96cc-0d163d91e290
Scraped At: 2026-08-13 00:17:41

STRUCTURED ATTRIBUTES:
----------------------------------------
ATM ID: CSIRORFT2026019
Agency: CSIRO
Category: 72102900 - Facility maintenance and repair services
Close Date & Time: 17-Aug-2026 2:00 pm (ACT Local Time) Show close time for other time zones
Publish Date: 16-Jul-2026
Location: VIC Melbourne
ATM Type: Request for Tender
APP Reference: CSIRORFT2026019
Multi Agency Access: No
Panel Arrangement: No
Multi-stage: No
Description: CSIRO, through this RFT, is seeking responses from suitably qualified and experienced service providers to provide grounds maintenance services at its Clayton Precinct (Clayton, Clayton North and Notting Hill), Aspendale, and Werribee (Sneydes Road and South Road). The Contractor shall provide comprehensive preventive and reactive grounds maintenance and landscaping services to ensure all outdoor areas at the mentioned sites are maintained to a high standard of safety and presentation.
Other Instructions: 
Conditions for Participation: 5.1 Conditions for Participation 5.1.1 Subject to clause 5.7, Unintentional Errors of Form, CSIRO will exclude a Tenderer from further consideration and evaluation if CSIRO considers in its absolute discretion that the conditions for participation set out in this clause have not been met by the Tenderer. Notwithstanding anything else contained in this RFT, only requirements listed in this clause will be deemed conditions for participation. a.the Tenderer exists as a legal entity at the RFT Closing Time and Date b.at the time of lodgement of their Tender, Tenderers must not have been: i.precluded from tendering for Australian Government funded work or ii. subject to a judicial decision against them relating to employee entitlements (not including decisions under appeal, and have not paid the claim c. where the Tenderer is a Relevant Employer, the Tenderer is compliant with its obligations under the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) (the WGE Act). Further information may be found at http://www.wgea.gov.au/ d. the Tenderer must comply with all Mandatory Requirements identified in the Attachment A - SOR (Statement of Requirements). 5.2 Minimum Content and Format Requirements 5.2.1 Subject to clause 5.7, Unintentional Errors of Form, CSIRO will exclude a Tenderer from further consideration if CSIRO considers in its absolute discretion that the Tenderer’s response does not meet the minimum content and format requirements listed in this clause. Notwithstanding anything else contained in this RFT, only requirements listed in this clause will be deemed minimum content and format requirements for the purposes of this RFT. a. The Tender must be lodged electronically via AusTender, the Australian Government Tendering System, in accordance with, clause 3.8, AusTender Terms and Conditions b. The Tenderer must complete and submit in their Response the: i. Tenderer’s Deed Poll, substantially in the form at Schedule 10, as set out in Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules). c. Noting the requirement at clause 5.2.1 b, Tenderers should substantially complete all remaining schedules of Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules), including the RFT Pricing Tables at Annexure A in the format provided. d. The Tender, including all attachments and supporting material, must be written in English. e. Alternative solutions will only be considered where the Tenderer also provides in its Tender, a response that conforms to the specified requirements of this RFT. f. Where the Tenderer is a Relevant Employer, the Tenderer must provide evidence as specified in Schedule 3 item 1.3.5 of Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules). Further information can be found at clause 5.8.
Timeframe for Delivery: October 2026
Address for Lodgement: AusTender
Addenda Available: View Addenda

================================================================================


============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: CSIRORFT2026019 Attachment B - TRS.docx
============================================================

Contents
Schedule 1.	Tenderer Details	7
Schedule 2.	Executive Summary	12
Schedule 3.	Response to Statement of Requirement	13
Schedule 4.	Quality Management and Compliance	33
Schedule 5.	Corporate Viability	37
Schedule 6.	Statement of Compliance	40
Schedule 7.	Pricing	43
Schedule 8.	Acknowledgements	46
Schedule 9.	Tender Response Documents	47
Schedule 10.	Tenderer’s Deed Poll	48
Response Checklist
Checklist
The following checklist is provided to assist preparing and submitting the tender response form. The checklist is a guide only. Tenderers should satisfy themselves that they have met all requirements in this RFT and should not rely on this checklist for this purpose.
Please return this checklist as the coversheet of your Tender.
Tender Response Schedules - Instructions
Response Schedules
The structure of the Tender Response Form is as follows:
Schedule 1 	Tenderer Details
Schedule 2 	Executive Summary
Schedule 3 	Response to Statement of Requirement
Schedule 4		Quality Management and Compliance
Schedule 5 	Corporate Viability
Schedule 6 	Statement of Compliance
Schedule 7 	Pricing
Schedule 8 	Acknowledgements
Schedule 9 	Tender Response Documents
Schedule 10 	Tenderer’s Deed Poll
RFT Response Instructions for Completion
The information you provide in this RFT Response will be considered in evaluating your organisation’s proven ability to meet the CSIRO requirements. 
Provide clear, concise information so as to demonstrate to the evaluation panel your ability to meet CSIRO’s requirements to a high standard.
The following instructions apply for completing Schedule 3 Response to Statement of Requirement. 
Some requirements are mandatory (Mandatory Requirement) and require a statement of compliance. Select the appropriate compliance statement from the drop-down box.  The compliance status must be in accordance with the following rules:
 “Comply” means:
In the case of a clause which is of an informative nature only, that the clause has been read and understood
In the case of a clause which specifies a requirement or characteristic of performance to be met by the Tenderer, that the Tenderer is able to provide the requirement or characteristic of performance as specified and
In the case of a clause which imposes a condition, that the condition is agreed to.
“Does Not Comply” means the condition, characteristic or performance requirement in the clause is not substantially met.
A response required in accordance with Clause 2.2.4 is to be provided as per the example below.
If a Tenderer fails to provide a statement of compliance for a Mandatory Requirement, the Tenderer will be regarded as being non-compliant.
All other requirements are desirable and require a response in the form of an explanation.  Please keep answers brief and to the point. Where the requirement is to describe a component of your services, the answers should not exceed 500 words, unless specifically stated in the answer box. If your answer exceeds the word count, please reference supporting documentation. Provide your response in the space as per the example below.
All responses should be input in the response document.  Exceptions only apply when the requirements specify a copy or an example of a document, in which case the attached document must be referenced as per the example below.
Instructions for Completion of Microsoft Excel based Worksheets
When requested to complete responses in the Excel worksheets provided, please ensure:
All relevant sections are completed by the Tenderer
Compliance statements are completed using the drop-down boxes.
Please provide your responses in the answer boxes in this document.
Add detail/comment if necessary, using a maximum of 500 words in the spreadsheet. If more information is required, or if the information you wish to submit is contained in existing material you may have, you should attach the document and provide a reference to the document.
Excel worksheets are password protected preventing any changes, other than the relevant areas for response. Please refrain from copying and pasting cells from another application where possible. If you do require to copy and paste, please be aware you will need to select the destination cell, then click into the format bar space at the top of the screen, and then click paste – to ensure the content adapts to the destination cell – and does not attempt to bring in source formatting.
Instructions for Completion of Deed Poll
The Tenderer is to ensure that the Tenderer’s Deed Poll at Schedule 10 is completed in accordance with the requirements and instructions set out in the relevant schedule.
The completed schedules are to be scanned and submitted as part of the Tender Response.
Tender File Formats and Naming Conventions 
Tenderers should save their Tender Response in the following format/s only:
Microsoft Word version 2003 or above (.doc or .docx)
Microsoft Excel version 2003 or above (.xls or .xlsx)
Adobe Acrobat format version 10 or above (.pdf). 
It is preferred that tenderers submit their non-pricing response in Adobe Acrobat (.pdf) format. Files may be compressed (.zip). Tenderers are not to use RAR files (.rar).
The Tender Response filename/s:
should not include characters or symbols
should incorporate the Tenderer’s name 
should reflect the various parts of the bid they represent, where the tender response comprises multiple files
should be short and succinct to avoid long file paths.        
Adobe Acrobat security settings should be set to allow content copying (copy and paste) and printing of the pdf file.
Tenderer Details
Tenderer Entity Details
Entity Details
The Tendering entity details are to be provided in Table 1.
Company Details
Where the Tendering entity response in Table 1 is a Company, the information in Table 2 is required to be provided. Please note, if you are Tendering as part of a consortium, all consortium members will be required to complete this section and provide as part of the Tender.
Trust Details
Where the Tendering entity response in Table 1 is a Trust, the information in Table 3 is required to be provided.
Conflict of Interest
Would a real or perceived conflict of interest exist, or a potential conflict arise, if your organisation, or where applicable the subcontractor, entered into a contract with CSIRO? If so, include full details and the strategies to manage the conflict.
Provide details in of any interests, relationships or clients which may or do give rise to a conflict of interest and the area of expertise in which that conflict or potential conflict does or may arise and details of any strategy for preventing conflicts of interest.
Has this response been prepared with any assistance from a current or former employee of CSIRO? If so, provide full details. If none, write ‘Nil”.
Outline the processes you have in place to handle any future conflict of interest (actual or perceived). 
Confidentiality of Tenderer’s information
Provide details of any aspects of this Response or any aspects of the proposed Contract that you consider should be kept confidential, with reasons. If none, complete the table with ‘Not Applicable’.
Information to assist you to assess whether the customer is able to treat particular information as confidential is available at: 
https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/buying-australian-government/confidentiality-throughout-procurement-cycle
Contact Details
Bid Manager, Contract Manager and Account Manager 
CSIRO wishes to develop a long-term relationship with the provider and work closely together to achieve maximum service efficiencies and value for money. CSIRO will require a nominated Bid Manager, Contract Manager and Account Manager noting that the Tenderer may nominate the same person for the roles of Contract Manager and Account Manager
The Bid Manager is the single point of contact through which further discussion or information about the tender can be coordinated.  The Bid Manager must have authority on behalf of the Tenderer to supply any acknowledgements required in the tender and to bind the Tenderer, and if a prime contractor, to bind all of its subcontractors.  The Bid Manager will be required during any contract negotiations (if such negotiations are necessary) and must have the authority to make decisions on behalf of the Tenderer.
The Contract Manager will be accountable for the Contract terms and conditions, and performance management.  
The Account Manager will be accountable for managing the client relationship, including delivering added-value aspects, such as networking opportunities, information on global best practice, white papers, etc.
Details of the nominated Bid Manager, Contract Manager and Account Manager are to be provided in Table 5, Table 6 and Table 7.
Executive Summary
Summary
Provide a brief (no more than 1 x A4 page) Executive Summary of your proposal highlighting any key aspects that you would like to bring to the attention of the Evaluation Team.
Response to Statement of Requirement
Capability and Experience
Scope
CSIRO, through this RFT, is seeking responses from suitably qualified and experienced service providers to provide grounds maintenance services at its Clayton Precinct (Clayton, Clayton North and Notting Hill), Aspendale, and Werribee (Sneydes Road and South Road).
The Contractor shall provide comprehensive preventive and reactive grounds maintenance and landscaping services to ensure all outdoor areas at the mentioned sites are maintained to a high standard of safety and presentation. 
Background
CSIRO operates an extensive portfolio of buildings and facilities across Australia. Through this RFT, CSIRO is seeking Ground Maintenance Services for the Site locations outlined in Table 1 CSIRO Regions and Site locations to ensure CSIRO maintains its obligations under the relevant statutes and regulations and provides a safe working environment for all staff. 
CSIRO has a requirement for the provision of the Services in the Victorian region for their Aspendale, Clayton Precinct (Clayton and Clayton North, Notting Hill), and Werribee Sneydes Road and South Road sites. 
Minimum Content and Format and Mandatory Requirements 
In accordance with the requirements set out in the RFT, CSIRO may exclude a Tender from further consideration where the Tenderer does not sufficiently demonstrate compliance with the Mandatory Requirements and Conditions for Participation. 
Minimum Content and Format Requirements
Tenderers must confirm that they meet the Minimum Content and Format Requirements, as outlined in clause 5.2 of the RFT Head Document, by providing supporting documentary evidence where applicable.
Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth)
Under Australian Government procurement policy, you are obliged to indicate whether or not your organisation is covered by the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) (the WGE Act). Your organisation is covered by the WGE Act if it is a ‘relevant employer’, defined as being a non-public sector employer (including higher education institutions, trade unions and not-for-profit organisations) of 100 or more employees in Australia. For information about the coverage of the WGE Act, contact the Workplace Gender Equality Agency on (02) 9432 7000.
Respondents to this RFT must provide details of their compliance with the WGE Act below. Where applicable and available, Tenderers should provide the letter of compliance from the Workplace Gender Equality Agency.
Further information is available at: http://www.wgea.gov.au/
Mandatory Requirements
Tenderers must confirm that they can deliver the Mandatory Requirements outlined in Clause 1.3 of Attachment A – SOR and provide supporting documentary evidence where applicable.
1.3.4	(SOR Item 1.3.1) Tenderers must confirm that they are attended all site visits for the below sites:
Requirements
Note: Tenderers are asked to provide a response to each of the criteria listed below. The Item numbers identified for each criterion are as per the Item numbers listed in Attachment A – SOR.
(SOR Item 1.4.1) The Contractor will be required to deliver Grounds Maintenance Services at the sites detailed in Table 1 CSIRO Regions and Site locations.
(SOR Item 1.4.2) The Contractor will be required to undertake: 
Grounds Maintenance services to ensure CSIRO sites are maintained in an acceptable general appearance, are safe to access, and that the tenderer is competent and has the required capability to service our sites. 
Ensure reception entries are priority areas and are to be kept to CSIRO standards. 
Services whereby the maximum time between site visits is two weeks, to ensure litter and weed control is at an acceptable level.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.4.3) The Contractor is to undertake Services within the working hours below:
Clayton Precinct, Werribee Sneydes & Aspendale:
Monday to Friday, 7:30am to 6:00pm (except for public holidays)
Werribee South Road:
Ad-hoc basis only Monday to Friday advised by CSIRO Facility Manager
  Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.4.4) In undertaking the services, the Contractor should comply with local council, State Government and Commonwealth laws, regulations and safety codes, including but not limited to, Workplace Health and Safety, noise restrictions and workhour restrictions.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Grounds Services 
(SOR Item 1.5.1) Lawn Maintenance
Mowing – Mow all lawn areas evenly to a height between 30-50mm;
Edging - Lawns trimmed to form a defined edge using a mechanical edger along pathways, kerbing, gutters, and around buildings, posts and garden beds and fences. No chemicals to be used as an edging alternative unless approved in writing by the CSIRO Facilities Contact; 
Mowing/edging clean-up – Grass clippings must not be allowed to build up on lawn areas. Sweep all grass clippings from adjacent roads, paths, hard surfaces immediately after mowing and edging. All green waste to be removed off site to a registered recycling facility; 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, plastic, cans, etc.) from all lawn areas. Sort and place in recycling and waste bins provided by CSIRO on site; 
Leaf fall – Remove leaves from all lawn areas and recycle at a registered facility off site; 
Weed control – Broadleaf weed spray all lawn areas, as needed at least twice per year, when requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Herbicides must comply with Australian Standards and be approved, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
 (SOR Item 1.5.2) Garden Maintenance
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, plastic, cans and loose debris) from all garden areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on site 
Garden clean-up – remove leaves, bark, twigs, branches, spent flower heads, dead/diseased plants and debris from garden beds and recycle at a registered facility off site 
Pruning – trim plants, hedges and shrubs to maintain a compact form, free from wayward growth, whilst still maintaining a healthy and tidy appearance. Ensure a 200mm gap is maintained between plants and the surface of any structure. Ensure that shrubs and plants do not encroach onto pathways, roads or courtyard areas. Ensure that signage, lighting and garden features are not obstructed by plant growth. Trees to be kept clean trunked for a clear line of sight and tidy presentation. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. 
Pest control – Inspect plants in garden areas for pests and treat with pesticides. Pesticides must comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite 
Weed control – remove all weeds from garden beds. Weeds below 300mm in height to be hand removed or sprayed out using an approved herbicide, above 300mm weeds must be removed by hand. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.5.3) Paths, Courtyards and Hard Stand
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, cans, etc.) from all paths, gravel/pebble areas, courtyards and hardstand areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on site 
Cleaning – vacuum, sweep or blow all footpaths, gravel paths, gravel/pebble areas paved areas, courtyards, and hardstands to remove all leaves and debris. Leaves and debris to be collected and recycled off site, not blown onto nearby lawns or garden beds 
Weed control – remove weeds by hand or with an approved herbicide. Chemical dyes must not be used in these areas. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite. 
Areas where blowers must not be used adjacent to CSIRO buildings will be advised on commencement 
Monitor and advise CSIRO Facilities contact of hazards such as moss/slippery pathways that could create a slip hazards to pedestrians
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.5.4) Roadways and Carparks
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, cans, etc.) from all Roadways and Carparks areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on site 
Cleaning – vacuum sweep or blow all roads and carparks to remove all leaves, plant debris, soil and silt.  Leaves and debris to be collected and recycled off site, not blown onto nearby lawns and gardens. Blowing shall not occur where vehicles are parked and damage may occur.
Weed control – remove weeds by hand or with an approved herbicide (approved in writing by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Chemical dyes must not be used in these areas. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite. 
Storm water drainage - Check road sumps, grate drains, spoon drains, kerb and gutter areas. Remove any leaves, debris and soil if its reasonably practicable. Report any areas requiring plumbers attention to the CSIRO Facilities Contact. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.5.5) HS&E Hazard Management 
Survey the site for HSE hazards (e.g. suspended broken tree branches, dying unstable trees, unsafe walkways, missing drain covers, overflowing drains, chemical/fuel spills) 
Ensure area is safe and if possible rectify any hazard immediately (e.g. removal of tree branches) or otherwise make temporary arrangements (e.g. erect a barricade). Keep a stock of barricade material (e.g. barrier tapes, witches hats, posts) readily available for this purpose. 
Notify the CSIRO Facilities contact of relevant observations, actions and safety recommendations immediately via email by COB next business day. 
Dispose of all tree material including trunks and large limbs as directed by the CSIRO Facilities contact 
Survey Tree Health and Safety – All trees on site to be surveyed and identified in a written schedule of trees that has a reference number per tree, location details, both textually and graphically presented, once yearly, by a qualified arborist or tree surgeon for clearance to building structures, power lines, paths and roads. Inspect for damage, dead branches and disease and provide a written report to the CSIRO Facilities Contact with recommendations and pricing.  Additional requirements may be required on a site-by-site basis, additional requirements will be advised by the Facilities Contact.
The contractor must review site and locale fuel load and manage to minimise risk of fire damage. All noted issues to be advised to CSIRO Facilities contact.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Seasonal Preparedness
(SOR Item 1.6.1) CSIRO requires the Contractor undertake Seasonal Site Preparedness Audits as described in Item 1.6.4 and 1.6.5. The Contractor is to take a strategic and proactive approach to Seasonal Preparedness at each Site, providing timely and effective communications to the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator on risks to be addressed and any preparation works required including quotes where services fall within the scope of services of this Contract. Failure to undertake this essential task may be considered as a serious default on the part of the Contractor. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.2) The Contractor must provide the Services to ensure the existing fuel load in garden beds is continually decreased and an effective solution is implemented to eliminate the fire hazard of leaves blown into garden beds.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.3) As part of the annual performance review of the Contract (refer Item 1.13), the Contractor shall report on their demonstrated effectiveness in delivering Services to achieve the fire hazard reduction requirement in Item 1.6.2.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.4) Site Preparedness (Fire) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements below:
Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator prior to the start of the fire season 
Rectify identified issues from Fire Report if requested by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.5) Site Preparedness (Storm) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements below:
Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator prior to the start of the storm season 
Rectify identified issues from Storm Report if requested by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.6) Where applicable Site Preparedness (Bushfire) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements below and as provided in the Checklist which will be confirmed by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.7) Where applicable Site Preparedness (Floods) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements below and as provided in the Checklist which will be confirmed by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Incident Response Periodic and Reactive Services
(SOR Item 1.7.1) The services identified in this Item 1.7 will be required either periodically or when advised by the CSIRO Facilities Manager.  The Services are subject to the Contracted Schedule of Rates for each of these services as provided in Annexure A - Pricing Response and Service Frequency:
Monday to Friday 7.30am to 5.00pm
Monday to Friday after hours 5.00pm to 7.30am
Saturdays
Sundays and Public Holidays
Call out fee (if any)
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Incident Response
(SOR Item 1.7.2) Storm/wind damage – remove fallen trees, branches and dangerous limbs as requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Trees and or branches to be removed within 24hrs if they are a HSE risk or in a high traffic area.  If not a HSE risk, implement safety measures (e.g. barriers, tape, cones) to ensure safety until corrective action completed.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.7.3) Storm/miscellaneous damage – remove or make safe [e.g. washed out refuse (soil, tanbark)] to ensure safety within 24hrs if they are a HSE risk or in a high traffic area.  If not a HSE risk, implement safety measures (e.g. barriers, tape, cones) to ensure safety until corrective action completed. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Hand Watering
(SOR Item 1.7.4) Hand water shrubs and plants under heat stress as directed by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Replanting
(SOR Item 1.7.5) Ad hoc replacement of plants removed from garden areas. Contractor shall consult and recommend the appropriate replacement before to replanting.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Mulching
(SOR Item 1.7.6) Inspect and assess garden beds. Supply and install hardwood mulch to garden bed surroundings. Spread mulch to approximately 75mm thick and raked area to even level or as otherwise directed by the Facilities Contact 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Tree Management
(SOR Item 1.7.7) Trim branches and remove dead limbs, diseased /dead trees, highlighted in the tree survey report, as requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Recycle all green waste and take offsite to a registered recycling facility, or as directed by CSIRO Facilities contact, mulch to be utilised on site
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.7.8) Remove fallen tree branches as a result of sickness or adverse weather conditions. Branches shall be mulched and redistributed to the site garden beds if it is reasonably practicable.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.7.9) Pest control – treat diseased trees identified in the survey report with approved pesticides as requested by the Facilities Contact 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Site Preparedness (Fire) Audits
(SOR Item 1.7.10) Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Facilities Contact prior to the start of the summer fire season
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.7.11) Rectify identified issues from Fire Report if requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Slashing
(SOR Item 1.7.12) Undertake slashing to areas nominated by the CSIRO Facilities Contact to a height not greater than 150mm 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Equipment
(SOR Item 1.8.1) The Contractor will maintain a methodology relating to equipment maintenance and replacement. Service records and maintenance schedules must be provided if requested by CSIRO.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.8.2) Equipment used on site must be suitable for the Services being performed and incorporate innovative sustainable solutions. It is CSIROs preference for contractors to use low-emission and electric equipment 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.8.3) No equipment, fuel or charging apparatuses are to be stored on site.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Staffing and Personnel
(SOR Item 1.9.1) All contractor personnel and subcontractors must successfully complete the below requirements:
CSIRO Induction requirements
Approved List of Personnel and Subcontractors including ABN’s and emails
Attendance Register
Notify CSIRO of the removal of Contractor’s Employees
Management of authorised Personnel
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.2) CSIRO requires consistency in the Contractor’s Personnel undertaking works onsite, high turnover of Personnel leads to Service disruption, increases risk and presents an administrative burden and therefore cost to CSIRO. CSIRO requires that the Contractor has in place an effective approach and program to both attract and retain qualified and experience personnel, and further has an effective plan for personnel contingency at all levels.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.3) The Contractor shall ensure they have appropriately qualified and experienced personnel to undertake horticultural and garden maintenance. Proof of qualifications and experience must be provided if requested by CSIRO. The Contractor must provide a detailed description of their qualifications and/or experience in horticultural and garden maintenance.  
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.4) For qualifications, Contractor should identify all qualification achieved and the institution/s where each was completed. Proof of qualifications and experience must be available if requested by CSIRO
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.5) All personnel working on Site must have a current police check which is obtained every 12 months. Reportable outcomes must be disclosed to CSIRO for review and decision with regard to suitability to work on Site. CSIRO retains the right to decline access to Site for personnel it deems as not suitable to perform Services on Site.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.6) All personnel working on site will be required to wear a uniform which readily identifies them while they are on site. The Contractor company name or logo is to be displayed on the uniform.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.7) The Contractor will maintain an effective service redundancy/contingency plan including their ability to manage staff absences, both planned and unforeseen (e.g. holidays and sick leave).
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.8) The Contractor is to avoid use of labour hire staff as a default part of their Contingency plan. Casual and labour hire staff are not exempt from personnel requirements in this Contract such as, but not limited to, experience, qualifications, inductions and police checks. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.9) The Contractor is to maintain and report on a Staff turnover/retention and Contingency management KPIs on an annual basis which will form part of CSIRO’s annual performance review of the Contract.  
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.10) CSIRO would welcome apprentices as part of the proposed and ongoing on-Site team. The Contractor shall maintain a ratio of experienced and fully qualified staff to apprentices of no less than 2:1 to ensure an adequate supervision and training environment for apprentices and to reduce risk of incidents and incomplete services
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Keys and Access Cards
(SOR Item 1.10.1) Any access cards or keys issued by CSIRO to the Contractor’s Personnel, the Contractor is required to be responsible for them; and maintain a register of all access card and keys issued, showing to whom and when they were issued, together with the receiving Personnel’s signature confirming receipt.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.10.2) Any access cards or keys issued to grounds maintenance Personnel must not be transferred to another person.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Prevention of Disturbance
(SOR Item 1.11.1) When working near staff or near occupied parts or areas of the site or buildings, the Contractor is required to perform the services in a manner that does not disturb or adversely affect the occupants or their use of those parts or areas. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.11.2) If works are being conducted that may create a disturbance, it is the requirement of the contractor and their personal to notify CSIRO facility manager in advance.  
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Standards and Certifications
(SOR Item 1.12.1) The Contractor will be required to comply with all relevant Australian legislation and standards applicable to the equipment and services which may include, but not be limited to:
Australian Electrical Standards
Work Health and Safety (WHS) / OHS Act Compliance
Safe Work Method Statements (SWMS)
AS/NZS ISO 45001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management)
Height Safety Standards (AS/NZS 1891)
Public Safety & Traffic Management (AS 1742.3)
Chemical Application & Biosecurity Regulations
AS 4373 (Pruning of Amenity Trees)
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.12.2) The Contractor is required to provide all relevant certifications prior to commencement and upon request by CSIRO staff.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.12.3) It is the responsibility of the contractor to provide competent and qualified personnel subject to the job to adhere to all Australian standards. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Performance
(SOR Item 1.13.1) The following Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been identified and will apply, as a minimum to the Successful Tenderers performance: 
performance against conditions of contract
provision of accurate reports within agreed timeframes
cost control within allocated budget
quality of service delivery and performance
ongoing evidence is to be provided to the CSIRO Facility Manager of necessary licences or permits (for staff and business operations) on commencement of the Services and within two weeks for any new or renewed licenses
ongoing evidence of the appropriate insurances. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.13.2) The Successful Tenderer will be required to provide written reports on a monthly basis that cover at a minimum:
confirmation of regular services provided
details of all requests for additional services
performance against key performance indicators
details of all complaints received in the period, action taken to address those complaints and whether the complaint has been satisfactorily resolved
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Performance Assessment
(SOR Item 1.13.3) The Services performed under the Contract by the awarded Contractor may be subject to a performance management framework consisting of:
regular meetings between the parties
issues resolution
quarterly performance reviews
formal Contract compliance auditing
annual performance reviews
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.13.4) CSIRO will take into consideration the results of the monthly performance reviews and any Contract compliance audits undertaken, in determining its options for any extensions to the Contract.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.13.5) Service Level Agreements will be developed/agreed as part of Contract negotiations with the Successful Tenderer.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Reporting
(SOR Item 1.14.1) The Contractor shall provide written reports via email in word or pdf format, on a quarterly basis that cover at a minimum of:
confirmation of regular services provided including hours per site
details of all requests for additional services
performance against key performance indicators
details of all complaints received in the period, action taken to address those complaints and whether the complaint has been satisfactorily resolved 
a summary of incidents that have occurred on each Site in the reporting period
Fuel Consumption - A quarterly report provided to the Facilities Manager or Coordinator, detailing:
Fuel Type
Volume
Chemical Usage - A quarterly report provided to the Facilities Manager or Coordinator, detailing:
Chemical type
date applied
location of application
volume
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.14.2) The Contractor will be required to provide written reports on an annual basis that cover at a minimum:
a review of service delivery performance against key performance indicators
a review of contract compliance
a review of the effectiveness of the service delivery plan 
other reports as required by CSIRO
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Meetings
Contract Governance Meetings
(SOR Item 1.15.1) A senior member of the Contractor’s team, typically the Contract Manager, is required to attend annual Contract governance meetings with CSIRO Representatives to discuss all relevant matters relating to the strategic objectives of the Contract, higher level strategic or business-related matters, and the status and quality of the contractual relationship generally.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.15.2) A Each governance meeting will be chaired by CSIRO, and CSIRO will provide secretariat requirements of the meeting i.e. prepare meeting agendas and minutes.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.15.3) A At CSIRO’s discretion change the frequency of these meetings may change. This change must be in writing from CSIRO’s Contracts and Compliance Manager
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.15.4) A Regular agenda items for the 6 monthly meetings will include, but is not limited to, discussion on
characteristics of the contractual relationship
review of the previous three (3) quarterly Contractor Performance review reports in accordance Clause 1.14.3, Performance Assessment
serious or higher-level issues, which either party considers have not been satisfactorily resolved.
the findings of any formal Contract Compliance Audit, undertaken in the previous three months in accordance with Section 10, Contracts Compliance Audit
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Ad Hoc Meetings
(SOR Item 1.15.5)  The Contractor is required to attend various meetings convened by CSIRO from time to time, and here deemed appropriate in the context of the Contractor’s responsibilities, represent CSIRO as its maintenance services provider; or in terms of any benefits to CSIRO drawn from the Contractor’s knowledge of the facilities, or industry knowledge and facilities maintenance expertise generally.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.15.6) Examples of ad-hoc meetings include but are not limited to meetings with:
Any CSIRO representatives relating to any incidental matters as they arise in connection with the Contract
any of CSIRO’s stakeholders, other service providers, its consultants and agents etc
HSE and Emergency Planning Committees
project or works planning and management group meetings
meetings with other government agencies or representatives, including statutory and, or regulatory authorities etc
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Service Delivery Plan
(SOR Item 1.16.1) A Service Delivery Plan shall be developed by the Contractor and is subject approval by CSIRO. The Service Delivery Plan is to include at a minimum;  
Maintenance Program 
HSE Management Plan
Risk Management Plan
Service Levels
Meeting Schedule 
Key Performance Indicators 
Other inclusion as required by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Manager e.g.
Quality Assurance Plan
Personnel names, qualifications, certifications, and contacts
  Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.16.2) The Service Delivery Plan will be monitored quarterly and reviewed at the annual performance review for effectiveness against the Contract requirements and the needs of CSIRO
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Transition In / Transition Out
(SOR Item 1.17.1) The Tenderer is to describe how they propose to transition-in from the current provider to CSIRO sites and set up the Service ready for operation on the commencement of this Contract. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.17.2) Within 14 days from the Effective Date, the Contractor may be required to provide to CSIRO, for approval by CSIRO (acting reasonably), a comprehensive Transition-in Plan (TiP).
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.17.3) The TiP is required to include an agenda of tasks and actions, including:
the tasks to be completed and approved by CSIRO
any critical path tasks and sub tasks included in the TiP
who will be responsible for completing the tasks; and
priorities, timeframes and anticipated task completion dates.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.17.4) The Contractor may be required to attend weekly meetings with CSIRO during each Transition-in period to consult with CSIRO, discuss and resolve any issues as they arise, brief CSIRO on progress, and submit any material for approval.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.17.5) The Contractor may be required to appropriately resource the transition-in effort to ensure that all tasks are completed in accordance with the approved TiP.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Asbestos
(SOR Item 1.22.1) The Tenderer warrants that no asbestos will be used in the manufacture of any component of the Goods, including any packaging, except as otherwise disclosed in this Tender.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
 Capacity
Experience
CSIRO is seeking to engage experienced quality providers who are leading organisations in their field and who can demonstrate a record of delivery of successful and effective grounds maintenance services Tenderers are to provide details of their experience in grounds maintenance.
Previous work
Provide a detailed response regarding any previous work undertaken which is similar in nature and relevant to the goods and/or services required by CSIRO. Provide the following details at a minimum:
Client, including type i.e. Commonwealth Government, research organisation or private sector
nature of the goods and/or services
duration or term of arrangement.
Key Personnel
Provide clear, concise details of the key personnel responsible for delivery of the requirements.
Subcontractors
Provide details of each subcontractor organisation and identify the roles or the specific parts of the Contract you will use in the tables below. If no subcontractors are proposed write ‘Not Applicable’.
Development and Support
Tenderers are asked to provide details of any initiatives and/or activities it undertakes to promote the engagement of local Indigenous people into employment, including opportunities for entry level participants and the percentage of overall workforce engaged locally.
Current work
Provide a detailed response regarding any current work which is similar in nature and relevant to the goods and/or services required by CSIRO. Provide the following details at a minimum:
Client, including type i.e. Commonwealth Government, research organisation or private sector
nature of the goods and/or services and
duration or term of arrangement.
Taking into consideration current work, Tenderers are to confirm that they have the capacity to provide the Services required by CSIRO. 
Additional information
Provide any additional capacity details relevant to this proposal that you have not already included but want the Evaluation Panel to consider. Any information included here should be relevant to this proposal and be as concise as possible.
Quality Management and Compliance
Quality Management 
Quality Management Systems
Does your organisation have a certified Quality Management System?  If YES, to which standard are you accredited? 
If you are not currently certified but are currently in the process of achieving certification provide details in Table 1 Quality Certification.
If you are not in the process of achieving certification, provide details of how you intend to ensure that the Goods or Services will meet CSIRO requirements and industry standards for quality.
If required, are you prepared to undergo a quality assessment by CSIRO or its representatives?
Provide a draft Quality Plan outlining how your organisation would ensure that quality standards were being maintained and monitored, particularly in relation to Attachment A of this RFT.
Compliance
Work Health and Safety 
Tenderers will be required to comply with relevant legislation, regulations and Codes of Practice for the applicable state. For Work Health and Safety information and guidance see link below.
https://www.business.gov.au/risk-management/health-and-safety/work-health-and-safety  
Work Health and Safety legislation requires all persons conducting a business to eliminate risks to health and safety wherever reasonably practicable; otherwise, to minimise those risks.
Provide documentary evidence of existing work health and safety management systems and any third-party accreditation as applicable or relevant in the context of the delivering the requirements.
Provide details of your organisation’s Work Health and Safety Management Plan as applicable or relevant in the context of the delivering the requirements.
Supply Chain Integrity 
How much visibility does your organisation have over your supply chain? Please select one of the below and explain why you selected this option:
Does your organisation have a policy or policies in place to deal with modern slavery?
Describe any actions your organisation undertakes to support this code and/or policy including what actions you require/request your contractors to do. For example, are your contractors registered on the Home Affairs Modern Slavery register, have your contractors lodged their WGE compliance certificate.
Does your organisation have a person or team responsible for overseeing modern slavery risks (including record keeping regarding contractors and subcontractors) that arise in relation to the goods or services that you deliver?
Are staff in your organisation trained on how to identify, assess and respond to modern slavery risks?
Does your organisation perform screening of all prospective suppliers to assess the risks of modern slavery or other human rights harms that may occur in its operations and supply chains?
Are you aware of low-skilled migrant workers working in your organisation’s supply chains?
Describe any actions your organisation undertakes to assess your supply chain against relevant labour standards.
How would your organisation respond to any allegation of modern slavery or substandard working conditions in its operations or supply chains?
Does your organisation engage in any other due diligence activities to identify, prevent and mitigate risks specific to modern slavery in its operations and supply chains? If so, please describe these activities. 
Provide a copy of any purchasing code of practice (if any) and human rights policy (if any) that your organisation uses.
Broader Economic Benefits to the Australian Economy 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of how they will promote the engagement of local Australian industry, ensuring that full, fair, and reasonable opportunity is afforded to local industry Australian suppliers in the delivery of the requirements.  
Further information in relation to Broader Economic Benefits to the Australian Economy and how to interpret the information can be found at:
https://www.finance.gov.au/sites/default/files/2020-08/consideration-of-broader-economic-benefits-in-procurement.pdf
Corporate Viability
Financial, Legal and Insurance
Financial
Provide a brief financial overview or statement for last three complete financial year periods.
Provide the last 3 years financial statements.
Insurance
Provide details of your Public Liability Insurance for an amount $20,000,000.
Provide a copy of your certificate of Public Liability Insurance. 
Provide details of your Product Insurance for an amount $10,000,000.
Provide a copy of your certificate of Product Insurance. 
Workers Compensation
Provide a copy of your certificate of currency for Workers Compensation Insurance, as required under the relevant statutes or regulations. 
If the Workers Compensation Insurance is not in the name of the Tendering Entity, additional details are required to explain why. For example: explain why a Certificate of Currency may contain 0 (zero) employees or $0 value etc.
Subcontractors
Provide details of each subcontractor organisation and identify the roles or the specific parts of the Contract you will use in Table 1 and Table 2. If no subcontractors are proposed write ‘Not Applicable’.
Referees
Provide three referees where you have conducted similar goods and/or services to those set out in the Statement of Requirements. 
Tenderers are not to provide CSIRO staff as referees.
Statement of Compliance
RFT and Contract Compliance
Compliance
The Tenderer's statements of compliance should be limited to the following expressions: 
“Compliant”
"Partially Compliant" and 
"Non-Compliant"
in accordance with the meanings set out in Table 1 Compliance Term Definitions.
Where an offer does not comply with one or more clauses of a Schedule, (i.e. if the Tenderer specifies responses of “Partially Compliant” or “Non-Compliant”), for each instance of partial or non-compliance the Tenderer should:
state the extent of non-compliance, or provide the Tenderer's alternative proposal and
describe the Tenderer's proposed amendments to the clauses in respect of which there is any non-compliance.
The Tenderer should be aware that non-committal terms such as “Noted” or a failure to respond may be assessed as a “Non-Compliant” response.
The Tenderer should note that responses of "Partially Compliant" or "Non-Compliant" will not automatically exclude a Tender from further consideration, although the degree of compliance may be a factor in the evaluation process.
RFT Compliance
The Tenderer is required to complete the Statement of Compliance response in Table 2 RFT Compliance Response in accordance with the instructions set out in this Schedule 6.
If a proposed tender fully complies with the requirements of the RFT, in accordance with the RFT Head Document then the Tenderer may simply state in their response to this Schedule 6 “Compliant”.
Where a Tenderer is unable to comply with clauses of this RFT, the Tenderer should, in the order in which the clauses appear, provide the details of non-compliance in Table 2 RFT Compliance Response. A statement of compliance may be indicated against groups of clauses or paragraphs (e.g. clauses 3.10 to 3.20 inclusive - “Partially Compliant”). If no response in Table 2 is provided, the Tenderer  will be considered to be fully compliant.
Contract Compliance
The Tenderer is required to complete the Statement of Compliance response in Table 3 Contract Compliance Response in accordance with the instructions set out in this Schedule 6.
If a proposed tender fully complies with the requirements of the Contract, then the Tenderer may simply state in their response to this Schedule 6 “Compliant”.
Where a Tenderer is unable to comply with clauses of the Draft Contract, the Tenderer should, in the order in which the clauses appear, provide the details of non-compliance in Table 3 Contract Compliance Response. A statement of compliance may be indicated against groups of clauses or paragraphs (e.g. clauses 3.10 to 3.20 inclusive - “Partially Compliant”). If no response in Table 3 is provided, the Tenderer  will be considered to be fully compliant.
Alternative Tender Information
Where a Tenderer also submits an Alternative Tender, it must include any supplementary material, together with associated prices, which demonstrates in detail that such an alternative will fully achieve and/or exceed all the specified outputs or functional and performance requirements together with references as to why the additional features may be advantageous. The details should be cross referenced to the appropriate paragraph in the Statement of Requirement at Attachment A of this RFT.
Provide details of supplementary information provided as an attachment to this Response. 
Pricing
Pricing Requirements
Overview of Pricing
This Schedule sets out the pricing requirements of CSIRO under the Draft Contract.
CSIRO is requesting pricing which will provide it with value for money and transparency in pricing. This Schedule 7 has been structured to reflect the RFT and to enable Tenderers to match their pricing to the underlying Goods and Services requested. 
Pricing Tables
The Tenderer is required to complete and submit as part of their Response the Pricing Tables set out in the Microsoft Excel workbook, RFT Pricing Tables, provided as Annexure A to this Schedule 7.
The Pricing Tables consist of a number of Microsoft Excel worksheets and tables which when completed will comprise the Tenderer’s pricing proposal. 
General Requirements for Pricing
This RFT requires pricing to be presented as per the following instructions:
Measurement must be expressed in Australian legal units of measurement (unless otherwise in this RFT).
All prices are required to be stated in Australian dollars $ (unless otherwise specified).
The Tenderer is to complete the Pricing Tables in the format provided and to complete all of the sections of the Pricing Tables. 
When proposing prices, the Tenderer is required to:
Provide pricing including GST. Where GST is applicable to Goods or Services which are ‘taxable supplies’ within the meaning of the GST Law, GST will be included in any invoiced amount. 
Except in accordance with Clause 1.4, International Orders, include all taxes, duties and charges imposed or levied in Australia and overseas in connection with the performance of the Contract.
Tender prices must not vary according to the mode of payment or alter during the period of Tender validity. The Tenderer must assume the risk of any currency fluctuations in respect of those underlying costs of its technical solution or Services that the Tenderer incurs in a currency other than Australian dollars.
International Orders
Orders for internationally sourced Items will be processed by the Tenderer in accordance with relevant Australian Customs, Taxation and Transportation Legislation. Documentation verifying that correct procedures have been undertaken is to be provided for internationally sourced Items.
By virtue of Customs By-Law No. 2000668, CSIRO is exempt from duties in respect of imports of scientific instruments or apparatus to which: 
Annex D to the Agreement on the Importation of Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials Agreement 1950 (the UNESCO Florence Agreement); or
Annex D to the Protocol to the Agreement on Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials Protocol 1976 (the Nairobi Protocol)
apply.
The Tenderer should note the CSIRO’s standard 20-day period for the payment of invoices following receipt of a correctly rendered Tax Invoice. 
Whole of Life Cost
Prices submitted by the Tenderer should include all costs associated with supplying the Goods and Services and doing all things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the Contract. These include import duties and charges, freight, licence fees, royalty payments and the services of any representatives, including third parties. 
In the evaluation process, CSIRO may, at its absolute discretion, consider and if necessary, adjust offered prices in order to establish a common basis for the comparison of Tenders. Such adjustments may include but are not limited to:
consideration of normalised and discounted cash flow
cost of administration of the Contract
any assumptions or other caveats attaching to the offered price 
adjustment for errors
analysis of risks related to a Tender; and
other costs, if any, or financial impacts on CSIRO that may arise from appointing a particular Tenderer.
CSIRO also reserves the right to seek clarification on any pricing matters in respect of pricing from each Tenderer or short-listed Tenderers, if it is deemed necessary to determine a clear value for money outcome for CSIRO.
Pricing Basis
Tendered pricing for the base requirements, optional items and consumables must be separately itemised and is required to include at a minimum:
Unit rates for each item
quantities proposed
service intervals and/or consumption rates (where applicable) and
Tenderer pricing assumptions or caveats
The Tenderer is required to detail all assumptions and the cost drivers which it relied upon in developing the proposed pricing.
Inflation
The Tendered Prices set out in the Response must not include an allowance for inflation. Where:
the Contract specifies a Term, inclusive of any optional extension periods, which is greater than 1 year; and/or
the Tenderer is able to demonstrate supplier costs are subject to inflationary increases or decreases
CSIRO may consider a proposal for a Contract mechanism to adjust Tendered Prices for inflation.
CSIRO favours an adjustment mechanism that is based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI). 
Where a mechanism is agreed by CSIRO, an inflation adjustment will be applied each anniversary during the Term. The first adjustment will be applied on the first anniversary of the Contract commencement. 
Discounts and Incentives
Tenderers should identify in their Response any discounts that will apply based upon:
Discounts or incentives 
Discounts for early payment of invoices; and/or
Any other option or incentive arrangements proposed by the Tenderer.
Acknowledgements
RFT Documents Issued
The Tenderer is required to acknowledge the following documents were received and relied upon in the development of the Response to the RFT.
If Addendums have been issued for this RFT, please outline below your acknowledgement that these have been received and reviewed.
Tender Response Documents
Documents
Tenderers are to identify each document name and associated filename submitted to CSIRO as part of their RFT proposal. 
Tenderer’s Deed Poll
In this Deed Poll, terms not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the RFT.
Compliance with the Tender
In preparing its response and participating in the Tender process, the Tenderer has fully complied with the requirements and the conditions of the Tender.
Tenderer’s acknowledgement of Conditions of Tender
The Tenderer undertakes to participate in the Tender process in accordance with the RFT and based on the response. 
The Tenderer’s response is complete relating to all matters in the Conditions of Tender.
The Tenderer’s response shall remain open for the Offer Period.
Conflict of Interest
Other than as set out in the Tender Response Form, the Tenderer confirms that there are no conflicts of interest that may affect its ability to provide the Goods and/or Services.
Collusion
The Tenderer warrants that, if required by CSIRO, a senior officer of the Tenderer shall sign a statutory declaration containing a statement to the following effect:
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents has entered into, or will enter into, any contract, arrangement or understanding to pay any money or provide any other benefit to a professional association in respect of the Tender, the Contract or any contract resulting there from.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents had knowledge of the tender sum of any other Tenderer prior to or at the time the Tenderer submitted its Tender.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents has disclosed, or will disclose, prior to the Tender Closing Time and Date, the Tender Price submitted by the Tenderer to any other Tenderer who submitted a Tender, or Tenderer who proposes to submit a Tender, or to any other person or organisation.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents has provided, or will provide, information to any other Tenderer, person or organisation, to assist another Tenderer to prepare a tender known as a “cover bid”, whereby the Tenderer is of the opinion or belief that another Tenderer does not intend to genuinely compete for the award of the Contract.
The Tenderer is genuinely competing for the award of the Contract and its Tender is not a “cover bid”.
Prior to the Tenderer submitting its Tender, neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents entered into any contract, arrangement or understanding having the result that on or after being awarded the Contract, the Tenderer would pay to any other Tenderer who unsuccessfully tendered, any moneys or provide any other benefit or other financial advantage in respect of the Tender, or any Contract resulting from it.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents has entered into or will enter into any contract, arrangement or understanding having the result that on or after being awarded a Contract, the Tenderer would pay to an association or any other association, any moneys or provide any other benefit or other financial advantage to or on behalf of any other Tenderer who unsuccessfully tendered for the Services.
Other Matters
The Tenderer or any party proposed by the Tenderer to deliver any Goods and Services to CSIRO:
has not been named under the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) 
is not listed as designated entity by the Minister of Foreign Affairs by notice in the Gazette under s 15 of the Charter of the United Nations Act 1945 (Cth) and
having made reasonable investigations, is not, and will continue to not be in contravention of any international law or convention in relation to forced labour or slavery, including the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery 1956.
The Tenderer has taken appropriate advice on the tender process and its requirements and understands and agrees to all conditions including, without limitation, obligations and acknowledgments included in the Tender Documents.
EXECUTED AS A DEED POLL for the benefit of the CSIRO



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: CSIRORFT2026019 Head Document v1.0.pdf
============================================================

 
 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
 
 
 
 
Request for Tender 
Head Document 
CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground 
Maintenance Services for 
CSIRO Managed Sites VIC 
Metro 
 
 
 
ISSUE DATE 
16 July 2026 
CLOSING TIME AND 
DATE 
17 August 2026 2:00pm AEST 
LODGEMENT 
Tenders must be lodged in accordance 
with the requirements at clause 3.8 
CSIRO CONTACT 
OFFICER 
CSIRO Contact Officer details are 
provided at clause 3.3 
Australia’s National 
Science Agency 

 
CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
 
Page 2 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
Contents 
 
CSIRO .................................................................................................................................................... 4 
1.1 
About us ..................................................................................................................................... 4 
1.2 
Structure ..................................................................................................................................... 4 
1.3 
Our strategy, objectives and values ........................................................................................... 4 
 
Definitions and Interpretation .............................................................................................................. 6 
 
Request for Tender ............................................................................................................................. 11 
3.1 
Request for Tender Documents ............................................................................................... 11 
3.2 
About this Request for Tender ................................................................................................. 11 
3.3 
Queries and Addenda ............................................................................................................... 11 
3.4 
Clarifications ............................................................................................................................. 11 
3.5 
Clarification Questions ............................................................................................................. 12 
3.6 
RFT Modification Procedure ..................................................................................................... 12 
3.7 
Complaints ................................................................................................................................ 12 
3.8 
AusTender Terms and Conditions ............................................................................................ 13 
 
Acknowledgment and Disclaimer ....................................................................................................... 14 
4.1 
Right Not to Proceed ................................................................................................................ 14 
4.2 
Costs Borne by Tenderer .......................................................................................................... 14 
4.3 
No Legal Relationship ............................................................................................................... 14 
4.4 
Information ............................................................................................................................... 14 
4.5 
Tenderers to Inform Themselves ............................................................................................. 14 
4.6 
Tenderer Acknowledgements .................................................................................................. 15 
4.7 
Rights of CSIRO ......................................................................................................................... 15 
4.8 
Disclaimer ................................................................................................................................. 15 
4.9 
Acceptance of Request for Tender Conditions and Rules ........................................................ 16 
 
Conditions of Tender .......................................................................................................................... 17 
5.1 
Conditions for Participation ..................................................................................................... 17 
5.2 
Minimum Content and Format Requirements ......................................................................... 17 
5.3 
Timetable .................................................................................................................................. 17 
5.4 
RFT Closing Time and Date ....................................................................................................... 18 
5.5 
Late Lodgement Policy ............................................................................................................. 18 
5.6 
Mishandling of Responses by CSIRO or AusTender .................................................................. 18 
5.7 
Unintentional Errors of Form ................................................................................................... 19 
5.8 
Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) .............................................................................. 19 
5.9 
Ownership of Response Material ............................................................................................. 19 
5.10 Bid and Contract Manager Details ........................................................................................... 19 
5.11 Site Visit .................................................................................................................................... 20 
5.12 CSIRO’s Confidential Information ............................................................................................. 20 
5.13 Tenderer’s Confidential Information ........................................................................................ 21 
5.14 Australian National Audit Office ............................................................................................... 21 

  
Page 3 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
5.15 Conflict of Interest .................................................................................................................... 21 
5.16 Ethical dealing and security, financial and probity checks ....................................................... 22 
5.17 Relevant legislative provisions ................................................................................................. 22 
5.18 Offer Period .............................................................................................................................. 23 
5.19 Contract Nature ........................................................................................................................ 23 
5.20 Part Offer .................................................................................................................................. 23 
5.21 Consortium Bids ....................................................................................................................... 23 
5.22 No Joint Contracting ................................................................................................................. 23 
5.23 Alternative Tenders .................................................................................................................. 23 
 
Evaluation Process .............................................................................................................................. 24 
6.1 
Evaluation Objective ................................................................................................................. 24 
6.2 
Tender Response Schedules ..................................................................................................... 24 
6.3 
Use of Information in the Evaluation ....................................................................................... 24 
6.4 
Evaluation Process Overview ................................................................................................... 24 
6.5 
Exclusion from Evaluation ........................................................................................................ 25 
6.6 
Value for Money ....................................................................................................................... 25 
6.7 
Evaluation Criteria .................................................................................................................... 25 
6.8 
Evaluation Stages ..................................................................................................................... 26 
6.9 
Clarifications ............................................................................................................................. 27 
6.10 Reference Checks and Further Information ............................................................................. 27 
6.11 Negotiations with Tenderers .................................................................................................... 27 
6.12 Debriefing ................................................................................................................................. 27 
 
 
 

  
Page 4 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
CSIRO 
1.1 
About us 
1.1.1 
CSIRO is Australia’s national science agency and innovation catalyst. We are Australia’s most trusted 
research institution and most connected innovator, working with every Australian university, 
government department and major Australian industry. As one of the largest and most 
multidisciplinary mission-driven research organisations in the world, we unlock a better future for 
everyone. 
1.1.2 
We have talented people working out of centres in Australia and internationally. We play a vital role 
in enhancing collaboration within the Australian national innovation system, and as a trusted advisor 
to government, industry and the community. Our people are focused on delivering the greatest 
national benefit. 
1.1.3 
CSIRO’s purpose is to deliver the science Australians need for the nation they want – productive, 
sustainable, healthy and secure. CSIRO staff undertake and assist research in Australia and overseas, 
focusing on providing new ways to contribute to the economic and social performance of our 
industries, and to improve our quality of life.  
1.2 
Structure 
1.2.1 
CSIRO is an Australian Government Corporate Commonwealth Entity (CCE), with a Board and Chief 
Executive, constituted and operating under the provisions of the Science and Industry Research Act 
1949, which sets out our functions and powers, as well as those of our Minister, Board and Chief 
Executive. The governance, performance and accountability of our operations, including the use and 
management of public resources are set out in the Public Governance, Performance and 
Accountability Act 2013 (PGPA Act) and related rules. Further information about CSIRO is at: 
https://www.csiro.au/en/about/We-are-CSIRO    
1.3 
Our strategy, objectives and values 
1.3.1 
CSIRO’s strategy reflects the role CSIRO plays in benefitting the society and supporting Australia's 
national interests. It reflects the priorities outlined by the Minister and the requirements of CSIRO in 
the Science and Industrial Research Act 1949. It sets the course to achieve our purpose and realise 
our vision. It articulates the challenges we are solving, objectives and key initiatives that will enable 
us to deliver, and our values, which underpin everything we do. 
1.3.2 
CSIRO seeks to engage with Respondents who align with CSIRO’s objectives:  
a. 
Drive science and technology for impact:  Conduct impact-driven science and research that 
addresses Australia’s challenges in 6 research areas: 
i. 
Energy and Minerals 
ii. 
Food and Fibre 
iii. 
From Wonder to Discovery 
iv. 
One Health 
v. 
Tech Economy. 
b. 
Steward research infrastructure: Provide access to fit-for-purpose research infrastructure 
containing state‑of‑the-art facilities and equipment. 

  
Page 5 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
c. 
Connect science and innovation to society: Enhance the productivity and long-term 
competitiveness of Australia’s innovation system by bridging the gap between community, 
science and industry. 
d. 
Create an enduring and empowered CSIRO: Create a sustainable and adaptable organisation 
with a vibrant, diverse and safe culture that attracts and retains exceptional people.  
1.3.3 
Our values infuse everything we do, guiding our behaviours and decision making. They articulate how 
we work every day to deliver our strategy. CSIRO also seeks to engage with Respondents who align 
with CSIRO’s Values: 
a. 
People first: Our first priority is the safety and wellbeing of our people. We believe in, and 
respect, the power of diverse perspectives. We seek out and learn from our differences. We 
do our very best to get this right. 
b. 
Making it real: We do science with real impact. We thrive when taking on the big challenges 
facing the world. We take educated risks and defy convention. We celebrate successes and 
failures, leveraging them to learn as we strive to be the force for positive change. 
c. 
Trusted: We are driven by purpose but remain objective.  We fight misinformation with facts. 
We earn trust through everything we do. We trust each other and we hold each other 
accountable. Together, our actions drive Australia’s trust in CSIRO and science. 
d. 
Further together: We achieve more together than we ever could alone. We listen and 
collaborate in teams, across disciplines and across boundaries. We embrace ambiguity and use 
discussion and persistence to generate unique solutions to complex problems. 

  
Page 6 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
Definitions and Interpretation 
2.1.1 
In this Request for Tender (RFT), unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have 
the following meanings: 
 
TERMS 
MEANINGS 
Addendum 
A notice issued after the Issue Date and before the RFT Closing Time 
and Date. 
Asbestos 
A friable silicate mineral having an asbestiform habit including 
actinolite asbestos, grunerite (or amosite) asbestos (brown), 
anthophyllite asbestos, chrysotile asbestos (white), crocidolite 
asbestos (blue) and tremolite asbestos. 
AusTender 
AusTender is the Australian Government’s online tendering system 
located at https://www.tenders.gov.au.  
Australian or New 
Zealand business 
An Australian business is - 
• 
a business, including any parent business, that: 
o 
has 50% or more Australian ownership, or is 
principally traded on an Australian equities market; 
and 
o 
is an Australian resident for tax purposes; and 
• 
a business that has its principal place of business (the main 
place in the world where the business is run from) in Australia. 
This location (that is, the main place the business is run from) 
must be a street address in Australia. 
A New Zealand business – as defined in New Zealand’s Government 
Procurement Rules, available at www.procurement.govt.nz 
Further guidance is available at the following link: 
https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/defining-
australian-business-commonwealth-procurement/guidance-definition-
australian-or-new-zealand-business 
Commonwealth 
Supplier Code of 
Conduct 
The Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct (Code) outlines the 
Commonwealth’s minimum expectations of suppliers and their 
subcontractors while under contract with the Commonwealth. Further 
information can be found at: 
https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonweal
th-supplier-code-conduct/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct  
Confidential 
Information 
all information disclosed in any form or medium that: 
a. 
is designated as confidential; or 
b. 
is by its nature confidential; or 
c. 
the other party knows or ought to know is confidential,  
but does not include information that is or becomes public knowledge 
otherwise than by a breach of any confidentiality obligation. 
Conflict of Interest 
Any matter, circumstance, interest, or activity affecting the Tenderer 
(including the officers, employees, agents and sub-contractors of the 
Tenderer) which may or may appear to impair the ability of the 
Tenderer to provide the requirements to CSIRO diligently and 
independently. 

  
Page 7 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
TERMS 
MEANINGS 
Contract 
The Contract or Deed of Standing Offer (Deed) substantially in the 
form at Attachment C - Draft Contract of this RFT entered into 
between CSIRO and the Preferred Tenderer/s. 
CSIRO 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
CSIRO Business Day  
Monday to Friday, excluding weekend, public holidays (for the state in 
which the services are provided) and the CSIRO Shutdown Period.  
CSIRO Contact Officer 
The person or persons nominated at clause 3.3.1 to represent CSIRO 
during the term of this RFT process. 
CSIRO Shutdown 
Period 
CSIRO’s shutdown period between Christmas and New Year. 
Day 
Means a business day, Monday to Friday, and excludes weekends, 
public holidays (for the state in which the services are provided).  
Exploitation 
Engaging labour through slavery, bonding, indenture or other forms of 
compulsion. 
First Tier 
Subcontractor 
means an entity that the Tenderer proposes to directly contract with 
under a Subcontract 
Goods 
The Goods (substantially as outlined at Attachment A - SOR 
(Statement of Requirements) referred to in this RFT to be supplied by 
the Preferred Tenderer/s or under a Contract and/or Deed. 
Information 
Any information issued or to be issued by or on behalf of CSIRO in 
relation to or in connection with the Tender process. 
Issue Date 
The date CSIRO publicly notifies this RFT, via lodgement through 
AusTender. 
Late Tender 
A Tender that is not lodged by the RFT Closing Time and Date, as 
further defined in clause 5.5, Late Lodgement Policy. 
Modern Slavery 
As defined in the Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018 
Preferred Tenderer 
A Tenderer/s that have satisfied the Tender Evaluation Panel that its 
Tender satisfies all selection criteria and represents best value for 
money for CSIRO. A Preferred Tenderer may be requested to 
commence negotiations with CSIRO, with a view to entering into a 
Contract with CSIRO for the tendered Goods and/or Services. CSIRO 
reserves the right to negotiate with any Tenderer and may set aside 
the Preferred Tenderer’s Tender at any time and on such conditions as 
it deems appropriate (see Clause 6.11, Negotiations with Tenderers). 
Pricing Tables 
The tables in the Microsoft Excel workbook provided as an annexure 
to the Tender Response Schedules for the purpose of submitting 
pricing information for this RFT. 

  
Page 8 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
TERMS 
MEANINGS 
Procurement 
Connected Policy – 
Shadow Economy 
means the ‘Procurement Connected Policy - Shadow economy - 
increasing the integrity of government procurement’. Additional 
information in relation to the Procurement Connected Policy is 
available at: 
https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/buying-
australian-government/procurement-connected-policies 
Related Body 
Corporate 
Has the meaning set out in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) 
Relevant Employer 
 As defined in the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) 
RFT 
This Request for Tender. 
RFT Closing Time and 
Date 
The final time and date for lodgement of Tenders as provided by 
Clause 5.4, RFT Closing Time and Date. 
RFT Conditions 
The RFT conditions set out in these RFT Documents. 
RFT Documents 
All, or any of, the documents referred to in, clause 3.1, RFT Documents 
of these RFT Conditions. 
RFT Rules 
The same meaning as RFT Conditions. 
Satisfactory 
means meets the conditions set out in Part 6.b of the Shadow 
Economy Procurement Connected Policy or, if the circumstances in 
Part 6.c of the Shadow Economy Procurement Connected Policy apply, 
the conditions set out in Part 8.b of the Shadow Economy 
Procurement Connected Policy. 
Services 
The Services (substantially as outlined at Attachment A - SOR 
(Statement of Requirements) referred to in this RFT to be carried out 
by the Preferred Tenderer/s under a Contract and/or Deed. 
Shadow Economy 
Procurement 
Connected Policy 
means the ‘Procurement Connected Policy - Shadow economy - 
increasing the integrity of government procurement’ available at 
https://treasury.gov.au/publication/p2019-t369466. 
Small and Medium 
Enterprises (SME) 
an Australian or New Zealand firm with fewer than 200 full-time 
equivalent employees. When assessing the number of employees a 
firm has, employees of associated entities (as defined in s 50AAA of 
the Corporations Act 2001) to a firm are included. Associated entities 
to a firm include a firm’s parent company, a firm’s subsidiaries, and 
any related bodies corporate of the firm. 
Statement of Tax 
Record (STR) 
A Statement of Tax Record, requested from the Australian Taxation 
Office, and provided only by such a request. The statement indicates 
whether or not the tax record is satisfactory based on certain 
conditions. Further guidance can be found at: 
https://www.ato.gov.au/Business/Bus/Statement-of-tax-
record/?page=1#Requesting_an_STR.  
Supplier 
the Supplier awarded the Contract (if any) as an outcome of this RFT. 

  
Page 9 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
TERMS 
MEANINGS 
Supply Chain 
All stages of manufacture of the Goods whether or not those stages 
were done by the Supplier or third parties and includes all aspects of 
the manufacture including any components and packaging. 
Sustainable 
Procurement 
An opportunity to provide more value to an organisation by improving 
productivity, assessing value and performance, enabling 
communication between purchasers, suppliers and stakeholders, and 
by encouraging innovation. It is procurement that has the most 
positive environmental, social and economic impacts possible across 
the entire life cycle of goods and services. 
Tender 
A written submission in response to this RFT by a Tenderer made in 
accordance with these RFT Conditions. 
Tender Price 
The fee submitted by the Tenderer/s to undertake the Goods and/or 
Services subject to these RFT Documents and will form the basis of 
fees payable under any Contract. 
Tender Response 
Schedules (TRS) 
The response sections at Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response 
Schedules) of this RFT. 
Tenderer 
A Tenderer who submits a Tender in accordance with these RFT 
Conditions. 
Valid 
means valid in accordance with Part 7.e of the Shadow Economy 
Procurement Connected Policy. 
WGE Act 
Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) 
2.1.2 
All other terms used in this RFT have the same meaning as defined in Attachment C - Draft Contract. 
2.1.3 
In these RFT Conditions, unless the context otherwise requires: 
a. 
a reference to a section is to a section of these conditions 
b. 
a reference to a clause is to a clause of these conditions 
c. 
a reference to a schedule or annexure is a reference to a schedule or annexure to these 
conditions 
d. 
words in the singular include the plural and vice versa 
e. 
words importing one gender include all other genders 
f. 
a reference to a statute, ordinance, code or other law, includes regulations and other 
instruments under it and all consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of 
any of them 
g. 
a reference to any person includes a reference to a body corporate or government authority 
or agency and 
h. 
all prices and sums of money shall be in Australian dollars. 
2.1.4 
Headings are included in these conditions for reference purposes only and have no effect in limiting 
or extending the language of the part, section or clause to which they refer. 
2.1.5 
These RFT Conditions will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws for the time 
being, in force in the Australian Capital Territory. The courts of the Australian Capital Territory have 
non-exclusive jurisdiction to decide any matter arising out of this RFT. 

  
Page 10 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
2.1.6 
Where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning in these conditions, any other part of speech or 
other grammatical form in respect of such word or phrase shall, unless the context otherwise 
requires, have a corresponding meaning. 
 

  
Page 11 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
Request for Tender 
3.1 
Request for Tender Documents 
3.1.1 
This RFT and the Attachment/s set out all of the details concerning CSIRO’s requirements in relation 
to the Goods and/or Services, conditions of tendering, evaluation criteria and all other matters 
concerning this process. 
3.1.2 
The structure of the RFT documents is as follows: 
Request for Tender Head Document 
Attachment A 
SOR (Statement of Requirements)  
Attachment B 
TRS (Tender Response Schedules) 
Annexure A  
Pricing Response Schedule 
Attachment C 
Draft Contract 
3.2 
About this Request for Tender  
3.2.1 
This RFT is to select a Supplier  for the Goods and/or Services as specified in Attachment A -SOR 
(Statement of Requirements). This RFT is an invitation to treat and shall not be construed, 
interpreted, or relied upon, whether expressly or impliedly, as an offer capable of acceptance by any 
professional, firm or organisation or as creating any form of contractual, quasi-contractual, 
restitutionary or other relationship. 
3.2.2 
Nothing in this RFT will be construed to create any binding contract (express or implied) between 
CSIRO and any Tenderer until a written Contract, if the parties enter into any, is executed 
substantially in the form of the Attachment C- Draft Contract. 
3.3 
Queries and Addenda 
3.3.1 
Tenderers should direct any queries arising from this RFT to the CSIRO Contact Officer:  
CSIRO Contact Officer Name 
Procurement Officer 
Email 
CSIRORFT2026019@csiro.au  
 
3.3.2 
All such queries are to be directed to the CSIRO Contact Officer via email only. Telephone enquiries 
will not be taken. 
3.4 
Clarifications 
3.4.1 
Clause 3.5, excludes queries and requests for technical or operational support relating to 
downloading or accessibility for RFT documentation from the AusTender system.  Queries and 
requests for technical or operational support must be directed to the AusTender Help Desk as per 
clause 3.8.7. 

  
Page 12 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
3.5 
Clarification Questions 
3.5.1 
Tenderers may seek clarification of the meaning of the content of this RFT from CSIRO’s Contact 
Officer at any time prior to the Closing Date for clarifications as outlined in clause 5.3.1. All enquiries 
must be in writing submitted to CSIRO’s Contact Officer Email as identified at clause 3.3.1. 
3.5.2 
If clarifications are received after the Closing Date of Clarifications as outlined in Clause 5.3.1, CSIRO 
will, in its sole discretion, determine whether or not to respond to such questions. Any election not 
to respond will be notified to the Tenderer asking the question. 
3.5.3 
In all cases CSIRO reserves the right to forward any clarification of the meaning of the content of this 
RFT to all Tenderers on a non-attributable basis without disclosing the source of the questions.  
3.5.4 
If a Tenderer believes it has found a discrepancy, error, ambiguity, inconsistency or omission in this 
RFT or any other information given or made available by CSIRO, the Tenderer should promptly notify 
the CSIRO Contact Officer setting out the error in sufficient detail so that CSIRO may take the 
corrective action, if any, it considers appropriate. 
3.5.5 
If a question by a Tenderer reveals new information that, in the sole opinion of CSIRO may be material 
to the outcome of the RFT process, or such questioning reveals an error in information previously 
distributed by CSIRO, the new or corrected information will be distributed to all Tenderers in 
accordance with clause 3.6, RFT Modification Procedure. 
3.6 
RFT Modification Procedure 
3.6.1 
CSIRO may, in its absolute discretion, issue modifications to this RFT. Such modifications may include 
variations to the RFT or additional information in relation to the RFT.  
3.6.2 
If CSIRO elects to issue modifications to the RFT prior to the RFT Closing Time and Date, CSIRO will 
issue a formal addendum to the RFT via the AusTender website. An electronic advice will be issued 
automatically by AusTender to all Tenderers correctly registered as having downloaded the RFT. 
Tenderers should ensure their AusTender registration details are correct for this purpose. 
3.6.3 
All conditions and rules of this RFT will apply to all addenda unless modified by the addenda. Any 
such addenda will become part of the RFT. 
3.7 
Complaints 
3.7.1 
Any complaints arising out of this RFT process should be directed to the Complaints Officer: 
Complaints 
Officer 
General Complaints - Executive Manager, Strategic Procurement   
Complaints under the Government Procurement (Judicial Review) Act 2018 
(GPJR Act) - Probity Advisor, Governance 
Business Area 
 CSIRO Finance 
Email 
General Complaints: Procurement@csiro.au  
GPJR Act Complaints: ProcurementComplaints@csiro.au and 
generalcounsel@csiro.au 
Address for 
GPJR Act 
Complaints 
Probity Advisor c/- General Counsel,  
CSIRO Discovery Centre, Clunies Ross Street, Black Mountain ACT 2601. 
GPO Box 1700 ACT 2601. 
3.7.2 
All such queries are to be directed to the Complaints Officer preferably by email only but must be in 
writing either to the above address or email address. Telephone enquiries will not be taken. 

  
Page 13 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
3.8 
AusTender Terms and Conditions 
3.8.1 
CSIRO is conducting this RFT process using the Australian Government Tender System (AusTender) 
facility.  AusTender is the Australian Government’s procurement information system. Access to and 
use of AusTender is subject to terms and conditions.  In participating in this RFT process, Tenderers 
must comply with those terms and conditions and any applicable instructions, processes, procedures 
and recommendations as advised on AusTender at: 
https://www.tenders.gov.au/?event=public.termsOfUse. 
3.8.2 
The RFT has been published on the AusTender website and Tenderers should register their contact 
details and download the RFT from this website, even if a copy of the RFT has been obtained from 
other sources. 
https://www.tenders.gov.au 
3.8.3 
Only Tenderers who have registered on the AusTender website will be advised of any alteration, 
correction or notice in relation to this RFT. All alterations, corrections and notices will be made 
available on AusTender. 
3.8.4 
CSIRO accepts no responsibility if a Tenderer fails to become aware of any alteration, correction or 
notice, which would have been apparent from a visit to the AusTender website or from other 
information available from the CSIRO Contact Officer. 
3.8.5 
Tenderers must inform themselves concerning all security measures and other aspects of the 
AusTender technical environment. Tenderers must make their own assessment of the AusTender 
system prior to using it for any matter related to this RFT and no responsibility will be accepted by 
CSIRO arising in respect of any use or attempted use by any party of AusTender. 
3.8.6 
Scanned images of signed and/or initialled pages within the Tender, including Statutory Declarations 
and Deeds, where they are required, are permitted so long as the total file size does not exceed the 
5-megabyte limit. 
3.8.7 
All queries and requests for technical or operational support must be directed to the AusTender Help 
Desk. Contact details for the AusTender Help Desk are: 
Telephone: 1300 651 698 
Email: tenders@finance.gov.au 
3.8.8 
The AusTender Help Desk is available between 9am and 5pm (ACT Local Time), Monday to Friday 
(excluding ACT and national public holidays). 
 

  
Page 14 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
Acknowledgment and Disclaimer 
4.1 
Right Not to Proceed 
4.1.1 
CSIRO is not bound contractually, or in any other way to the Tenderers who respond to this RFT. 
CSIRO reserves the right not to proceed with this RFT or any part of it, and to suspend or vary the RFT 
and/or its requirements at any stage. 
4.2 
Costs Borne by Tenderer 
4.2.1 
All costs and expenses incurred by Tenderers in any way associated with the development, 
preparation and submission of the Tender response, including but not limited to attendance at 
meetings, discussions, presentations and providing any additional material required by CSIRO, will be 
borne exclusively by the Tenderers. 
4.3 
No Legal Relationship 
4.3.1 
No binding legal relationship will arise out of this process until execution of a contract with the 
Preferred Tenderer.  
4.4 
Information 
4.4.1 
The statements, opinions, projections, forecasts or other information contained in this RFT may 
change. Where any such information relates to future matters, no steps have been taken to verify 
that the information is based upon reasonable grounds, and no representation or warranty, 
expressed or implied, is made by CSIRO, or any of its officers, employees, advisers or agents that the 
statements contained in this RFT will be achieved. 
4.4.2 
This RFT is designed to reflect and summarise the information concerning the Goods and/or Services 
only and is not a comprehensive description of them. 
4.4.3 
Except as required by law, and only to the extent so required, neither CSIRO, nor its respective agents 
or advisers will in any way be liable to any person or body for any loss, damage, cost and expense of 
any nature arising in any way out of or in connection with the statements, opinions, projections, 
forecasts or other representations, actual or implied, contained in or omitted from this RFT or other 
information provided to any Tenderer or by reason of any reliance thereon by any person or body. 
4.4.4 
Any time and/or date in this RFT is for the sole convenience of CSIRO. The establishment of a time 
and/or date in this RFT does not create an obligation on the part of CSIRO to take any action or any 
right in any Tenderer that any action is taken on the date established. CSIRO may change any time or 
date. CSIRO will notify affected Tenderers if it changes the time and/or date but will not be obliged 
to provide any reasons for its actions. 
4.5 
Tenderers to Inform Themselves 
4.5.1 
Tenderers are considered to have: 
a. 
examined this RFT, any documents referenced in this RFT, and any other information made 
available by CSIRO to Tenderers for the purpose of responding 
b. 
examined all further information which is obtainable by the making of reasonable inquiries 
relevant to the risks, contingencies, and other circumstances having an effect on their Tender 
response 

  
Page 15 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
c. 
undertaken their own professional advice in respect of this RFT, any other information 
provided to Tenderers and the RFT process generally, as appropriate 
d. 
satisfied themselves as to the correctness and sufficiency of their Tender response including 
submitted prices and 
e. 
satisfied themselves as to the terms and conditions of the Draft Contract and its ability to 
comply with the Draft Contract. 
4.6 
Tenderer Acknowledgements 
4.6.1 
Responses are submitted on the basis that Tenderers acknowledge: 
a. 
they do not rely on any representation, letter, document or arrangement, whether oral or in 
writing, or other conduct as adding to or amending these conditions other than amendments 
in accordance with clause 3.6, RFT Modification Procedure  
b. 
they do not rely upon any warranty or representation made by or on behalf of CSIRO, except 
as are expressly provided for in this RFT, but they have relied entirely upon their own inquiries 
and inspection in respect of the subject of their Tender response. 
4.7 
Rights of CSIRO 
4.7.1 
Without limiting any other rights contained in this RFT, CSIRO may do any or all of the following at 
any time: 
a. 
not proceed with the RFT process where: 
i. 
it is not in the public interest 
ii. 
no Tenderer satisfies the Conditions for Participation, Minimum Content and Format 
requirements or Mandatory Requirements or 
iii. 
no Tenderer represents value for money 
b. 
suspend, defer or change the structure and timing of the RFT 
c. 
determine at any time a short list of Tenderers 
d. 
seek amended Tenders or call a new RFT 
e. 
forward any clarification about this RFT to all known Tenderers on a non-attributable basis and 
without disclosing any Confidential Information of a Tenderer 
f. 
allow or not allow another legal entity to take over a Tender response in substitution for the 
original Tenderer where an event occurs that has the effect of substantially altering the 
composition or control of the Tenderer or the business of the Tenderer 
g. 
negotiate with one or more persons who have not submitted Tender responses or enter into 
a contract or other binding relationship for similar Goods and/or Services to the Goods and/or 
Services outside of this RFT process and/or 
h. 
terminate any negotiations being conducted at any time with the Tenderers. 
4.8 
Disclaimer 
4.8.1 
This RFT is an invitation to treat and is not to be taken to be or relied upon as an offer capable of 
acceptance by any person or as creating any form of contractual (including a process contract), quasi 
contractual, restitutionary or promissory estoppel rights, or rights based on similar legal or equitable 
grounds. 

  
Page 16 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
4.8.2 
CSIRO will not be liable to any Tenderer on the basis of any promissory estoppel, quantum meruit or 
other contractual, quasi contractual or restitutionary grounds whatsoever or in negligence as a 
consequence of any matter relating or incidental to a Tenderer’s participation in this RFT including 
instances where: 
a. 
a Tenderer is not invited to participate in any subsequent process following completion of this 
RFT process 
b. 
CSIRO varies the RFT 
c. 
for reasons of public interest, CSIRO decides to terminate this RFT or not to contract for all or 
any of the requirements or 
d. 
CSIRO exercises or fails to exercise any of its other rights under or in relation to this RFT. 
4.9 
Acceptance of Request for Tender Conditions and Rules 
4.9.1 
By submitting a Tender in response to this RFT, the Tenderer accepts the Acknowledgements, 
Disclaimers and Conditions of Tender, as set out in this RFT. 
 
 

  
Page 17 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
Conditions of Tender 
5.1 
Conditions for Participation 
5.1.1 
Subject to clause 5.7, Unintentional Errors of Form, CSIRO will exclude a Tenderer from further 
consideration and evaluation if CSIRO considers in its absolute discretion that the conditions for 
participation set out in this clause have not been met by the Tenderer. Notwithstanding anything 
else contained in this RFT, only requirements listed in this clause will be deemed conditions for 
participation.  
a. 
the Tenderer exists as a legal entity at the RFT Closing Time and Date 
b. 
at the time of lodgement of their Tender, Tenderers must not have been: 
i. 
precluded from tendering for Australian Government funded work or 
ii. 
subject to a judicial decision against them relating to employee entitlements (not 
including decisions under appeal, and have not paid the claim 
c. 
where the Tenderer is a Relevant Employer, the Tenderer is compliant with its obligations 
under the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) (the WGE Act). Further information may 
be found at http://www.wgea.gov.au/ 
d. 
the Tenderer must comply with all Mandatory Requirements identified in the Attachment A - 
SOR (Statement of Requirements).  
5.2 
Minimum Content and Format Requirements 
5.2.1 
Subject to clause 5.7, Unintentional Errors of Form, CSIRO will exclude a Tenderer from further 
consideration if CSIRO considers in its absolute discretion that the Tenderer’s response does not 
meet the minimum content and format requirements listed in this clause. Notwithstanding anything 
else contained in this RFT, only requirements listed in this clause will be deemed minimum content 
and format requirements for the purposes of this RFT. 
a. 
The Tender must be lodged electronically via AusTender, the Australian Government 
Tendering System, in accordance with, clause 3.8, AusTender Terms and Conditions 
b. 
The Tenderer must complete and submit in their Response the: 
i. 
Tenderer’s Deed Poll, substantially in the form at Schedule 10, as set out in 
Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules). 
c. 
Noting the requirement at clause 5.2.1 b, Tenderers should substantially complete all 
remaining schedules of Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules), including the RFT 
Pricing Tables at Annexure A in the format provided. 
d. 
The Tender, including all attachments and supporting material, must be written in English. 
e. 
Alternative solutions will only be considered where the Tenderer also provides in its Tender, a 
response that conforms to the specified requirements of this RFT. 
f. 
Where the Tenderer is a Relevant Employer, the Tenderer must provide evidence as specified 
in Schedule 3 item 1.3.5 of Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules). Further 
information can be found at clause 5.8. 
5.3 
Timetable 
5.3.1 
An indicative timetable for the conduct of this RFT process is described below. The timetable may be 
amended by CSIRO at any time. 

  
Page 18 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
EVENT 
INDICATIVE DATES 
Issue of RFT 
16 July 2026 
Site Visit 
see Item 5.11 
Closing Date for clarifications  
10 August 2026 
Evaluation of Tender responses, including seeking clarification 
as required 
August 2026 
Negotiate and sign contract with Preferred Tenderer/s 
September 2026 
Implementation begins  
October 2026 
5.4 
RFT Closing Time and Date  
5.4.1 
The RFT Closing Time and Date is: 
RFT Closing Time and Date  
 17 August 2026 2:00pm AEST 
5.4.2 
Completed Tender responses must be lodged electronically through the AusTender website before 
the RFT Closing Time and Date in accordance with the RFT Conditions and AusTender Terms and 
Conditions. The AusTender website is at the following link: 
https://www.tenders.gov.au 
5.4.3 
Tenders lodged by any other means, including by hand, facsimile or email, will be considered as non-
conforming and will be excluded from this RFT process.  
5.4.4 
CSIRO recommends that Tenderers allow sufficient time when submitting Responses, in case they 
encounter any technical issues, especially internet connectivity, to ensure Responses are received 
prior to the RFT Closing Time and Date. 
5.5 
Late Lodgement Policy 
5.5.1 
CSIRO will exclude Late Tenders from the RFT process and will not admit them to evaluation. The 
Tender response is late (‘Late Tender’) if: 
a. 
it is a Late Tender in accordance with the RFT Conditions and/or AusTender Terms and 
Conditions; or 
b. 
it is incomplete as at the RFT Closing Time and Date (including where the Tender response 
includes electronic files that cannot be read or unencrypted). 
5.5.2 
However, the Tender response is not a ‘Late Tender’ where: 
a. 
an electronic submission of the Tender response has commenced prior to the RFT Closing Time 
and Date, and the transmission is completed within the timeframe and rules allowed by 
AusTender  
b. 
the Tender response is late due solely to a mishandling by CSIRO or AusTender, as determined 
by CSIRO in accordance with clause 5.6, Mishandling of Responses by CSIRO or AusTender.  
5.6 
Mishandling of Responses by CSIRO or AusTender 
5.6.1 
CSIRO will make a determination as to whether a mishandling has occurred. Where a Tender 
response is late solely due to mishandling by CSIRO or AusTender, CSIRO will admit it to evaluation.  

  
Page 19 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
5.7 
Unintentional Errors of Form 
5.7.1 
If an unintentional error of form in a Tender is identified prior to award of a contract, CSIRO may in 
its absolute discretion allow correction of that error by the Tenderer by the submission of a 
correction, variation or additional information. 
5.7.2 
An unintentional error of form is an error that CSIRO is satisfied in its absolute discretion: 
a. 
represents incomplete information not consistent with the Tenderer’s intentions and, if 
relevant, capabilities at the time the Tender was lodged  
b. 
does not materially affect the competitiveness of the Tenderer’s response. 
5.8 
Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) 
5.8.1 
Commonwealth Policy prevents CSIRO from entering into contracts with Suppliers who are non-
compliant under the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) (the WGE Act). The Draft Contract 
requires that, in performing any Contract, a successful Tenderer must: 
a. 
comply with its obligations, if any, under the WGE Act, and 
b. 
if the Term of the Contract exceeds 18 months, the successful Tenderer must provide a current 
letter of compliance from the Workplace Gender Equality Agency within 18 months from the 
Contract Commencement Date and following this, annually to the CSIRO Contract Manager. 
5.8.2 
Successful Tenderers should note that if during the term of the Contract, the Supplier becomes non-
compliant with the WGE Act, the Supplier must promptly notify the CSIRO Contract Manager upon 
advice of the non-compliance. 
5.8.3 
Tenderers must indicate as part of the Tenderer’s response at Attachment B – TRS (Tender Response 
Schedules), whether or not the organisation is a ‘Relevant Employer’ under the WGE Act and, if 
applicable, provide a current letter of compliance as part of their Tender, or prior to entering into a 
Contract. 
5.8.4 
Further information is available at: 
http://www.wgea.gov.au  
5.9 
Ownership of Response Material 
5.9.1 
All material submitted in response to this RFT becomes the property of CSIRO. Such intellectual 
property as may exist in the information contained in the Tender response will remain vested in the 
Tenderer. 
5.9.2 
By submitting a Tender response, the Tenderer allows CSIRO to copy and do anything necessary to 
material, including the Tenderer’s intellectual property contained in the response, for the purpose of 
evaluating the Tenderer’s response and negotiating a Contract if the Tenderer proceeds to that phase 
of the process. 
5.10 Bid and Contract Manager Details 
5.10.1 
Tenderers should nominate, in the completed Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules), one 
bid manager as a single point of contact through which further discussion or information about the 
Tender can be coordinated. 
5.10.2 
The bid manager must have authority on behalf of the Tenderer to supply any acknowledgments 
required in the RFT and to bind the Tenderer, and if a prime contractor, to bind all of its sub-
contractors. The bid manager will be required during any contract negotiations (if such negotiations 
are necessary) and must have the authority to make decisions on behalf of the Tenderer. 

  
Page 20 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
5.10.3 
Further, one representative of the Tenderer should be nominated as the Contract Manager. 
Tenderers should provide detailed information about the Contract Manager, including curriculum 
vitae for that person. 
5.11 Site Visit 
5.11.1 
A Site Visit will be as shown in the table below:  
Site 
Site Address 
Site Visit Time 
Clayton Precinct (Clayton, 
Clayton North, Notting Hill) 
Main Reception Research Way, 
Clayton 
24 July 2026 
9am – 11am 
Aspendale 
Main 
Reception 
Robertson 
Parade, Aspendale 
24 July 2026 
1pm – 2pm 
Werribee 
(Sneydes 
Rd, 
South Road) 
Main Reception 671 Sneydes  
Rd Werribee 
27 July 2026 
10 am – 11am  
 
5.11.2 
Attendance at the Site Visit is a mandatory requirement for this RFT.  
5.11.3 
Tenderers will be required to indicate if they intend to attend the Site Visit, by registering via the 
tender inbox CSIRORFT2026019@csiro.au a minimum of one working days prior. Tenderers are to 
provide: 
a. 
Company Name and ABN 
b. 
Company Tender Point of Contact and contact details 
c. 
Attendee(s) full names, position(s) and email address 
5.11.4 
The purpose of a Site Visit is to provide Tenderers with an opportunity to understand the complexities 
and logistics of the site.  
5.11.5 
Tenderers should not rely on any statement made at the Site Visit as amending or adding to this RFT 
unless that amendment or addition is confirmed by CSIRO in writing. 
5.11.6 
CSIRO may conduct security vetting of persons wishing to attend the Site Visit. 
5.11.7 
Further attendance instructions will be provided to registered attendees prior to the event. 
5.11.8 
Individual Site Visits will not be provided. 
5.12 CSIRO’s Confidential Information 
5.12.1 
Information provided to Tenderers by CSIRO in the course of the RFT process (in whatever form) that 
is marked as confidential, may only be used solely for the purpose of preparing and lodging a Tender. 
5.12.2 
Tenderers must not disclose or otherwise provide any Confidential Information (in whatever form) 
in connection with this RFT to any person that is not a party to the Tenderer’s response without 
CSIRO’s prior written approval. 
5.12.3 
On request at any time, Tenderers must immediately return to CSIRO all copies of any CSIRO 
Confidential Information provided in the course of the RFT process. 
5.12.4 
Tenderers are required to ensure that any of their employees, agents or sub-contractors involved in 
meeting CSIRO’s requirements do not either directly or indirectly record, divulge or communicate to 
any person any Confidential Information concerning the affairs of CSIRO or a third party acquired or 

  
Page 21 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
obtained in the course of preparing a Tender response, or any documents, data or information 
provided by CSIRO and which CSIRO indicates to Tenderers is confidential or which Tenderers know 
or ought reasonably to know is confidential. 
5.13 Tenderer’s Confidential Information 
5.13.1 
CSIRO will treat as confidential, any information provided by a Tenderer, which is clearly marked by 
the Tenderer as Confidential Information. Tenderers must nominate only those parts of their Tender 
that are actually confidential. 
5.13.2 
CSIRO’s obligations in relation to Tenderer provided Confidential Information will not be taken to 
have been breached to the extent that the information is:  
a. 
disclosed by CSIRO to its advisers, officers, employees, sub-contractors or advisors in order to 
conduct the RFT process, including the preparation of any resultant contract  
b. 
disclosed to CSIRO’s internal management personnel or advisors, solely to enable effective 
management or auditing of the RFT process 
c. 
disclosed by CSIRO to its Department or to the responsible Minister 
d. 
disclosed by CSIRO in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of 
the Commonwealth of Australia 
e. 
authorised or required by law to be disclosed or 
f. 
in the public domain otherwise than due to a breach of the relevant obligations of 
confidentiality. 
5.14 Australian National Audit Office 
5.14.1 
Under the Auditor-General Act 1997 (Cth), the Auditor-General or an authorised person with a right 
to have, at all reasonable times, access to information, documents and records. 
5.14.2 
In addition to the Auditor-General's powers under the Auditor-General Act 1997 (Cth), if the Tenderer 
is chosen to enter into a Contract, the Tenderer will be required to provide the Auditor-General or 
an authorised person, access to information, documents, records and CSIRO assets, including those 
on the Tenderer's premises. This will be required at reasonable times on giving reasonable notice for 
the purpose of carrying out the Auditor-General's functions and will be restricted to information and 
assets which are in the custody or control of the Tenderer, its employees, agents or sub-contractors, 
and which are related to the Contract. Such access will apply for the term of the Contract and for a 
period of seven years from the date of expiration or termination. 
5.14.3 
Tenderers should obtain, and will be deemed to have obtained, their own advice on the impact of 
the Auditor-General Act 1997 (Cth) on their participation in the RFT. 
5.15 Conflict of Interest 
5.15.1 
During the RFT process, the Tenderer must immediately advise CSIRO in writing of any circumstances 
or relationships constituting an actual, potential or perceived Conflict of Interest in respect to its 
Tender response, or the Tenderer’s obligations under the Contract if the Tenderer is awarded the 
Contract. CSIRO may in its absolute discretion: 
a. 
enter into discussions to seek to address such Conflict of Interest  
b. 
exclude the Tenderer from the process and further evaluation or 
c. 
take any other action it considers appropriate. 

  
Page 22 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
5.16 Ethical dealing and security, financial and probity checks 
5.16.1 
CSIRO’s policy is to engage in the highest standards of ethical behaviour and fair dealing throughout 
the RFT process. CSIRO requires the same standards from those with whom it deals. Tenderers must 
compile responses without improper assistance of employees or former employees of CSIRO and 
without the use of information improperly obtained or in breach of an obligation of confidentiality. 
5.16.2 
Tenderers must not: 
a. 
engage in misleading or deceptive conduct in relation to the RFT process 
b. 
engage in any collusive submissions, anti-competitive conduct, or any other unlawful or 
unethical conduct with any other Tenderer, or any other person in connection with the RFT 
process 
c. 
attempt to influence improperly any officer, employee or agent of CSIRO, or violate any 
applicable laws or CSIRO policies regarding the offering of inducements in connection with the 
RFT process. 
5.16.3 
CSIRO may exclude from consideration any Tender lodged by a Tenderer which, in CSIRO’s reasonable 
opinion, has engaged in any behaviour contrary to this section in relation to the RFT process. 
5.16.4 
CSIRO (or its agents) may perform such security, probity, and financial investigations and procedures 
as CSIRO may determine are necessary in relation to any Tenderer, its employees, officers, partners, 
associates, sub-contractors or related entities including consortium members and their officers, 
employees and sub-contractors.  
5.16.5 
Tenderers should promptly provide CSIRO with such information or documentation that CSIRO 
requires in order to undertake such investigation. A Tender may be rejected by CSIRO if the Tenderer 
does not promptly provide, at its cost, all reasonable assistance to CSIRO in this regard or based on 
the outcomes of the investigations or procedures. 
5.16.6 
The Tenderer warrants that they are not aware of any evidence of Exploitation in its Supply Chain 
after conducting a reasonable examination of its Supply Chain. 
5.16.7 
CSIRO may also make independent enquiries about any matters that may be relevant to the 
evaluation of a Tender. 
5.17 Relevant legislative provisions 
5.17.1 
CSIRO policy is to not to enter into a Contract with Tenderers who have been named in Parliament 
as not complying with the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth).  
5.17.2 
CSIRO expects Suppliers to always act in a safe manner and perform all relevant Services in a way 
that is without risk to the health, safety or welfare of any person and eliminates health and safety 
risks so far as is reasonably practicable.  
5.17.3 
Tenderers should note the provisions and obligations in the Draft Contract relating to: 
a. 
work, health and safety 
b. 
the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct (Code) 
5.17.4 
CSIRO will not enter into a Contract with Tenderers who are listed as designated entity by the 
Minister of Foreign Affairs by notice in the Gazette under s 15 of the Charter of the United Nations 
Act 1945 (Cth) or who intend to engage sub-contractors who are listed as a designated entity by the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs by notice in the Gazette under s 15 of the Charter of the United Nations 
Act 1945 (Cth). A consolidated list of such persons, entities and associated assets is maintained by 
the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade under the Charter of the United Nations (Dealing with 
Assets) Regulations 2008 and can be found at https://www.dfat.gov.au/international-
relations/security/sanctions/Pages/consolidated-list   

  
Page 23 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
5.17.5 
CSIRO will not enter into a Contract with Tenderers engaging illegal workers. For more information 
refer to: 
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia 
5.18 Offer Period 
5.18.1 
All Tender Responses are to be valid for a period of 180 days from the RFT Closing Time and Date 
(Offer Period). 
5.19 Contract Nature 
5.19.1 
The aim of this RFT is to engage a qualified Supplier for the Goods and/or Services outlined at 
Attachment A - SOR (Statement of Requirements) and in accordance with the Contract. 
5.19.2 
The Preferred Tenderer will be required to enter into a Contract for three (3) years, with the provision 
to extend for two (2) years. 
5.20 Part Offer 
5.20.1 
CSIRO will NOT accept responses that deal with only part of the Statement of Requirement. 
5.21 Consortium Bids 
5.21.1 
CSIRO will NOT accept consortium Tender responses for this RFT.  
5.22 No Joint Contracting 
5.22.1 
CSIRO will not accept Tenders from Tenderers (including a consortium) that propose to contract 
jointly with CSIRO. 
5.23 Alternative Tenders 
5.23.1 CSIRO may, at its discretion, consider a Tender that does not comply fully with Attachment A - 
Statement of Requirements (Alternative Tender) only if the Tenderer: 
a. 
also provides a Tender that fully conforms to the requirements in the Statement of 
Requirements 
b. 
proposes a solution that satisfies the functional requirements of the Statement of 
Requirements 
c. 
is otherwise a complete Tender 
d. 
fully describes the advantages, disadvantages, limitations and risks of the alternative approach  
e. 
includes sufficient information to enable a comparison of the alternative tender with tenders 
that comply with the Statement of Requirements. 

  
Page 24 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
Evaluation Process 
6.1 
Evaluation Objective 
6.1.1 
The purpose of the evaluation process is to identify and select the Tenderer/s that represents the 
best value for money (VFM) to CSIRO, consistent with the Commonwealth Procurement Rules (CPRs) 
and CSIRO procurement standards and procedures. 
6.1.2 
Tenders will be assessed in accordance with the evaluation criteria and methodology adopted by 
CSIRO to determine best VFM. VFM is a comprehensive assessment that takes into account both cost 
represented by the assessment of price and value represented by technical assessment in the context 
of the risk profile presented by each Tender, including any request by a Tenderer to limit its liability 
under the Attachment C - Draft Contract (as Amended). 
6.1.3 
The Tenderer is required to demonstrate its ability to efficiently and effectively provide the Goods 
and/or Services. Tenders that fail to meet this requirement, or are incomplete, or fail to satisfy any 
particular criterion specified in this RFT or are clearly not competitive, may be excluded from 
consideration at any time during the evaluation process at CSIRO’s absolute discretion. However, 
CSIRO may still consider such Tenders and seek clarification under clause 5.7, Unintentional Errors of 
Form. 
6.1.4 
Tenderers should note that notwithstanding anything done pursuant to clause 4.7, Rights of CSIRO, 
CSIRO intends to select the Preferred Tenderer/s primarily on the basis of the written Tenders 
submitted. Accordingly, Tenderers are encouraged to submit their best and unconditional offers in 
the first instance. By submitting its Tender, each Tenderer acknowledges that CSIRO will be relying 
on all of the information contained in, and all of the representations made in, such Tender and any 
subsequent written and/or verbal referee reports or clarifications of that Tender, for the purposes of 
evaluating the Tender against the evaluation criteria. 
6.2 
Tender Response Schedules 
6.2.1 
The Tenderer is to provide a written response to the RFT requirements in accordance with the 
requirements set out in the Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules). 
6.3 
Use of Information in the Evaluation 
6.3.1 
The Tenderer’s written Tender response to the requirements set out in Attachment B - TRS (Tender 
Response Schedules) to this RFT will be used by the Tender Evaluation Panel to evaluate Tenderers 
against the evaluation criteria. 
6.3.2 
The Evaluation Panel may also use any relevant information obtained in relation to the Tender 
(whether from the Tenderer as part of clarification, reference checks, negotiations, presentations or 
by any other independent inquiry) in the evaluation of responses.  
6.4 
Evaluation Process Overview 
6.4.1 
Tenders will be evaluated to identify overall VFM for CSIRO. This will be assessed by considering the 
information provided in Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules). To enable a 
comprehensive and accurate assessment of the Tender against the criteria, Tenderer’s should 
provide comprehensive information addressing the details in the format set out in Attachment B - 
TRS (Tender Response Schedules). 
6.4.2 
CSIRO reserves the right, in its absolute discretion, to conduct progressive short-listing to reduce the 
number of Tenders to be evaluated. Progressive short-listing may occur on the basis of the following: 

  
Page 25 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
a. 
where a conflict of interest exists or is perceived to exist 
b. 
where the Tender demonstrates a low level of compliance with the Evaluation Criteria, the 
Attachment C – Draft Contract and the Conditions of Tender as set out in this RFT 
c. 
where there is lack of experience in providing Goods and/or Services of a similar nature 
d. 
insufficient evidence of demonstrated capability to efficiently and effectively manage and 
provide the Services and/or source and deliver the required Goods 
e. 
an adverse or insufficient financial capability assessment of the Tenderer 
f. 
the Tender is demonstrably not viable based on the tendered pricing. 
6.4.3 
CSIRO may at any stage during the evaluation process reach the view that a Tenderer or Tenderers 
fall within any of the categories listed above. 
6.5 
Exclusion from Evaluation 
6.5.1 
Tenderers will be assessed to ensure compliance to, clauses 5.1, 5.2 and 5.5. Subject to clauses 5.6 
and 5.7, Tenderers who are non-compliant with these clauses will not be included in the evaluation. 
6.6 
Value for Money 
6.6.1 
Tenders will be assessed in accordance with the evaluation criteria to determine which Tenderer/s 
provides CSIRO with the best VFM.  
6.6.2 
In evaluating Tenderer’s responses, CSIRO will have regard to: 
a. 
each of the specific evaluation criteria identified in the table below  
b. 
the overall VFM proposition presented in the Tenderer’s Response. 
6.6.3 
In this context, ‘VFM’ is a measurement of benefits represented by a Tenderer’s Response, including: 
a. 
fitness for purpose 
b. 
performance history  
c. 
risk 
d. 
whole of life costs  
e. 
continuous improvement.  
f. 
Broader benefits to the Australian Economy. 
6.6.4 
VFM will be assessed on a ‘whole of life’ basis (including, where relevant, the transitioning-in, the 
Contract term and the transitioning-out phases of the relationship between CSIRO and a Tenderer), 
with a view to long-term sustainability of the VFM proposition - and with a focus on ensuring that 
VFM outcomes are promoted and protected following the conclusion of any Contract that may result 
from this RFT. 
6.7 
Evaluation Criteria 
6.7.1 
In evaluating the Tenders, may assign a particular weighting to any, all or none of the criteria specified 
in the table below. CSIRO may use material tendered in response to one evaluation criteria in the 
evaluation of other evaluation criteria. 
6.7.2 
Tenderers should ensure that they provide all required information in their Tenders to fulfil each 
evaluation criteria below by way of completing Attachment B - TRS (Tender Response Schedules) of 
this RFT. 

  
Page 26 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
6.7.3 
Tenders will be evaluated against the following evaluation criteria, which are listed below in order of 
relative importance. 
EVALUATION CRITERIA 
 
1. 
Capability and Experience (Weighted Criteria) 
1.1 
Relevant knowledge and experience in the industry of the Organisation and its Personnel 
1.2 
Capability against Statement of Requirement 
1.3 
Capability and experience of proposed personnel 
 
2. 
Capacity (Weighted Criteria) 
2.1 
Organisation capacity 
2.2 
Proposed Subcontractors 
2.3 
Capability to deliver on commitments 
3. 
Quality Management (Weighted Criteria) 
3.1 
Quality Management System 
3.2 
Work Health and Safety Management Plan  
3.3 
Environmental Policies/Management Plan 
4. 
Compliance (Non-Technical) 
4.1 
Corporate structure 
4.2 
Financial and corporate viability 
4.3 
Compliance with the Draft Contract  
4.4 
Compliance with the Deed of Confidentiality DSO Affiliate 
5. 
Pricing (Non-Technical) 
5.1 
Details of Fees 
5.2 
Fees for additional services/Transition In 
5.3 
Incentives/Discounts 
6.8 
Evaluation Stages 
6.8.1 
The Tender evaluation process will be divided into the following phases: 
a. 
Phase 1: Receipt and Registration of Responses 
b. 
Phase 2: Screening of Responses 
c. 
Phase 3: Detailed Evaluation 
d. 
Phase 4: Clarifications and Investigations 
e. 
Phase 5: Evaluation of VFM and Risk 

  
Page 27 of 27 
Version 15 updated 21 January 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
f. 
Phase 6: Tender Evaluation Report 
g. 
Phase 7: Contract Negotiations 
h. 
Phase 8: Contract Finalisation. 
6.8.2 
Tenderers may be short listed at any time during the evaluation. 
6.9 
Clarifications 
6.9.1 
As part of, and in addition to the evaluation process in Phase 4, CSIRO may require clarifications 
and/or presentations from Tenderers at any time during the evaluation process. Should such 
presentations be required, dates, times and venues for presentations will be notified to all Tenderers 
participating in the evaluation or the shortlisted Tenderers from the evaluation process. A list of areas 
and issues for Tenderers to address will be provided prior to the presentations.  
6.9.2 
In the event that clarification of a lodged Tender is required, Tenderers may be required to courier 
or security post the clarification, originals of the signature and/or initialled pages to CSIRO addressed 
to the CSIRO Contact Officer at the address specified. In this event, CSIRO will contact the Tenderer 
to advise what clarifications are required and the lodgement process (including the address and any 
specific requirements). 
6.9.3 
Any expenses (including time and travel) relating to Tenderer clarifications and presentations will be 
met by the Tenderer. CSIRO may require any presentation be conducted using video-conferencing 
facilities.  
6.10 Reference Checks and Further Information 
6.10.1 
As part of, and in addition to the evaluation process in Phase 4, CSIRO may at any time during the 
evaluation process conduct reference checks (including site visits, if relevant) on Tenderers. 
Reference checks may be conducted with any referee proposed by the Tenderer in its Tender 
response or with any other organisation selected by CSIRO at its discretion.  
6.10.2 
 CSIRO may also request further information from Tenderers during the evaluation process. 
6.11 Negotiations with Tenderers 
6.11.1 
CSIRO may engage in discussion with one or more Tenderers for the purpose of clarifying its Tender 
response. Where information of a material nature is provided to one Tenderer, it will also be provided 
concurrently to all other Tenderers (on a non-attributable basis) who are currently participating in 
the evaluation process. 
6.11.2 
CSIRO reserves the right to, at any time conduct post-tender negotiations with any or all of the 
Tenderers on any aspect of their Tender. This may involve conducting parallel negotiations with 
several Tenderers. These post-tender negotiations may result in changes to the terms of the Draft 
Agreement. 
6.11.3 
CSIRO may evaluate a Tenderer/s as being a ‘Preferred Tenderer’. If so, CSIRO may then enter into 
Contract negotiations with one or more Preferred Tenderers. CSIRO may also, at any time, re-
evaluate a Preferred Tenderer as no longer being preferred. 
6.12 Debriefing 
6.12.1 
Tenderers may request a debriefing following the award of a contract. Tenderers requiring a 
debriefing should contact the CSIRO Contact Officer. 
6.12.2 
If required, CSIRO will publish the details of the Supplier as a Contract notice on AusTender, if a 
resultant Contract is awarded. 




============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: RFT2026019 Attachment A - SOR v1.0.pdf
============================================================

 
 
 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
  
 
 
 
 
Request for Tender  
CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground 
Maintenance Services for 
CSIRO Managed Sites VIC 
Metro 
Attachment A 
Statement of 
Requirements 
 
Australia’s National
Science Agency

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 2 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Contents 
 
1. 
STATEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS ........................................................................................ 3 
1.1. Scope ....................................................................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Background .............................................................................................................................. 3 
1.3. Mandatory Requirements ....................................................................................................... 3 
1.4. Requirements .......................................................................................................................... 3 
1.5. Grounds Services ..................................................................................................................... 4 
1.6. Seasonal Preparedness ............................................................................................................ 7 
1.7. Incident Response Periodic and Reactive Services ................................................................. 7 
1.8. Equipment ............................................................................................................................... 8 
1.9. Staffing and Personnel ............................................................................................................ 9 
1.10. Keys and Access Cards ............................................................................................................. 9 
11.1. Prevention of Disturbance .................................................................................................... 10 
1.12. Standards and Certifications ................................................................................................. 10 
1.13. Performance .......................................................................................................................... 10 
1.14. Reporting ............................................................................................................................... 11 
1.15. Meetings ................................................................................................................................ 12 
1.16. Service Delivery Plan ............................................................................................................. 13 
1.17. Transition In / Transition Out ................................................................................................ 13 
1.18. Sustainable Procurement ...................................................................................................... 13 
1.19. HSE Requirements ................................................................................................................. 14 
1.20. Supply Chain Integrity ........................................................................................................... 15 
1.21. Broader Economic Benefits to the Australian Economy ....................................................... 15 
1.22. Asbestos ................................................................................................................................ 16 
 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 3 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
1. 
Statement of Requirements  
1.1. 
Scope 
1.1.1. 
CSIRO, through this RFT, is seeking responses from suitably qualified and experienced service 
providers to provide grounds maintenance services at its Clayton Precinct (Clayton, Clayton 
North and Notting Hill), Aspendale, and Werribee (Sneydes Road and South Road). 
1.1.2. 
The Contractor shall provide comprehensive preventive and reactive grounds maintenance 
and landscaping services to ensure all outdoor areas at the mentioned sites are maintained 
to a high standard of safety and presentation.  
1.2. 
Background 
1.2.1. 
CSIRO operates an extensive portfolio of buildings and facilities across Australia. Through this 
RFT, CSIRO is seeking Ground Maintenance Services for the Site locations outlined in Table 1 
CSIRO Regions and Site locations to ensure CSIRO maintains its obligations under the relevant 
statutes and regulations and provides a safe working environment for all staff.  
1.2.2. 
CSIRO has a requirement for the provision of the Services in the Victorian region for their 
Aspendale, Clayton Precinct (Clayton and Clayton North, Notting Hill), and Werribee Sneydes 
Road and South Road sites  
1.3. 
Mandatory Requirements 
1.3.1. 
Tenderers must attend all site visits for the below sites: 
CSIRO Site Name 
Site Address 
Clayton 
Research Way, Clayton VIC 3168 
Clayton North 
71 Normanby Road, Clayton VIC 3168 
Clayton, Notting Hill 
5 - 7 Commercial Drive, Notting Hill VIC 3168 
Aspendale 
107 - 121 Station Street, Aspendale VIC 3195 
Werribee Sneydes Road 
671 Sneydes Road, Werribee VIC 3030 
Werribee South Road 
6 South Road, Werribee VIC 3030 
1.3.2. 
Additional information can be found at Item 5.11 of the Head Document. 
1.4. 
Requirements 
1.4.1. 
The Contractor will be required to deliver Grounds Maintenance Services at the sites detailed 
in Table 1 CSIRO Regions and Site locations. 
Table 1 CSIRO Regions and Site locations 
 
 
Region 
CSIRO Site Name 
Site 
No. 
Site Address 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 4 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Victoria 
Clayton 
6040 
Research Way, Clayton VIC 3168 
Clayton North 
6300 
71 Normanby Road, Clayton VIC 
3168 
Clayton, Notting Hill 
6280 
5 - 7 Commercial Drive, Notting 
Hill VIC 3168 
Aspendale 
6020 
107 
- 
121 
Station 
Street, 
Aspendale VIC 3195 
Werribee Sneydes 
Road 
6320 
671 Sneydes Road, Werribee VIC 
3030 
Werribee South 
Road 
6310 
6 South Road, Werribee VIC 
3030 
1.4.2. 
The Contractor will be required to undertake:  
(a) 
Grounds Maintenance services to ensure CSIRO sites are maintained in an acceptable 
general appearance, are safe to access, and that the tenderer is competent and has 
the required capability to service our sites.  
(b) 
Ensure reception entries are priority areas and are to be kept to CSIRO standards.  
(c) 
Services whereby the maximum time between site visits is two weeks, to ensure litter 
and weed control is at an acceptable level. 
1.4.3. 
The Contractor is to undertake Services within the working hours below: 
(a) 
Clayton Precinct, Werribee Sneydes & Aspendale: 
i. 
Monday to Friday, 7:30am to 6:00pm (except for public holidays) 
(b) 
Werribee South Road: 
i. 
Ad-hoc basis only Monday to Friday advised by CSIRO Facility Manager 
1.4.4. 
In undertaking the services, the Contractor should comply with local council, State 
Government and Commonwealth laws, regulations and safety codes, including but not 
limited to, Workplace Health and Safety, noise restrictions and workhour restrictions. 
1.5. 
Grounds Services 
1.5.1. 
Lawn Maintenance 
(a) 
Mowing – Mow all lawn areas evenly to a height between 30-50mm 
(b) 
Edging - Lawns trimmed to form a defined edge using a mechanical edger along 
pathways, kerbing, gutters, and around buildings, posts and garden beds and fences. 
No chemicals to be used as an edging alternative unless approved in writing by the 
CSIRO Facilities Contact;  
(c) 
Mowing/edging clean-up – Grass clippings must not be allowed to build up on lawn 
areas. Sweep all grass clippings from adjacent roads, paths, hard surfaces immediately 
after mowing and edging. All green waste to be removed off site to a registered 
recycling facility;  

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 5 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(d) 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, plastic, cans, etc.) from 
all lawn areas. Sort and place in recycling and waste bins provided by CSIRO on site;  
(e) 
Leaf fall – Remove leaves from all lawn areas and recycle at a registered facility off site;  
(f) 
Weed control – Broadleaf weed spray all lawn areas, as needed at least twice per year, 
when requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Herbicides must comply with 
Australian Standards and be approved, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. A 
record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO 
Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite. 
1.5.2. 
Garden Maintenance  
(a) 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, plastic, cans and loose 
debris) from all garden areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on 
site  
(b) 
Garden clean-up – remove leaves, bark, twigs, branches, spent flower heads, 
dead/diseased plants and debris from garden beds and recycle at a registered facility 
off site  
(c) 
Pruning – trim plants, hedges and shrubs to maintain a compact form, free from 
wayward growth, whilst still maintaining a healthy and tidy appearance. Ensure a 
200mm gap is maintained between plants and the surface of any structure. Ensure that 
shrubs and plants do not encroach onto pathways, roads or courtyard areas. Ensure 
that signage, lighting and garden features are not obstructed by plant growth. Trees 
to be kept clean trunked for a clear line of sight and tidy presentation. Recycle all green 
waste off site to a registered recycle facility.  
(d) 
Pest control – Inspect plants in garden areas for pests and treat with pesticides. 
Pesticides must comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, 
by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. A record of chemical application will need to be kept 
and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite  
(e) 
Weed control – remove all weeds from garden beds. Weeds below 300mm in height 
to be hand removed or sprayed out using an approved herbicide, above 300mm weeds 
must be removed by hand. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle 
facility. Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in 
writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to 
be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events 
onsite.  
1.5.3. 
Paths, Courtyards and Hard Stand  
(a) 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, cans, etc.) from all 
paths, gravel/pebble areas, courtyards and hardstand areas. Sort and place in recycling 
bins provided by CSIRO on site  
(b) 
Cleaning – vacuum, sweep or blow all footpaths, gravel paths, gravel/pebble areas 
paved areas, courtyards, and hardstands to remove all leaves and debris. Leaves and 
debris to be collected and recycled off site, not blown onto nearby lawns or garden 
beds  
(c) 
Weed control – remove weeds by hand or with an approved herbicide. Chemical dyes 
must not be used in these areas. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle 
facility. Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in 
writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 6 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events 
onsite.  
(d) 
Areas where blowers must not be used adjacent to CSIRO buildings will be advised on 
commencement  
(e) 
Monitor and advise CSIRO Facilities contact of hazards such as moss/slippery pathways 
that could create a slip hazards to pedestrians 
1.5.4. 
Roadways and Carparks  
(a) 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, cans, etc.) from all 
Roadways and Carparks areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on 
site  
(b) 
Cleaning – vacuum sweep or blow all roads and carparks to remove all leaves, plant 
debris, soil and silt.  Leaves and debris to be collected and recycled off site, not blown 
onto nearby lawns and gardens. Blowing shall not occur where vehicles are parked and 
damage may occur. 
(c) 
Weed control – remove weeds by hand or with an approved herbicide (approved in 
writing by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Chemical dyes must not be used in these areas. 
Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. Herbicides to comply 
with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities 
Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the 
CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite.  
(d) 
Storm water drainage - Check road sumps, grate drains, spoon drains, kerb and gutter 
areas. Remove any leaves, debris and soil if its reasonably practicable. Report any areas 
requiring plumbers attention to the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  
1.5.5. 
HS&E Hazard Management  
(a) 
Survey the site for HSE hazards (e.g. suspended broken tree branches, dying unstable 
trees, unsafe walkways, missing drain covers, overflowing drains, chemical/fuel spills)  
(b) 
Ensure area is safe and if possible rectify any hazard immediately (e.g. removal of tree 
branches) or otherwise make temporary arrangements (e.g. erect a barricade). Keep a 
stock of barricade material (e.g. barrier tapes, witches hats, posts) readily available for 
this purpose.  
(c) 
Notify the CSIRO Facilities contact of relevant observations, actions and safety 
recommendations immediately via email by COB next business day.  
(d) 
Dispose of all tree material including trunks and large limbs as directed by the CSIRO 
Facilities contact  
(e) 
Survey Tree Health and Safety – All trees on site to be surveyed and identified in a 
written schedule of trees that has a reference number per tree, location details, both 
textually and graphically presented, once yearly, by a qualified arborist or tree surgeon 
for clearance to building structures, power lines, paths and roads. Inspect for damage, 
dead branches and disease and provide a written report to the CSIRO Facilities Contact 
with recommendations and pricing.  Additional requirements may be required on a 
site-by-site basis, additional requirements will be advised by the Facilities Contact. 
(f) 
The contractor must review site and locale fuel load and manage to minimise risk of 
fire damage. All noted issues to be advised to CSIRO Facilities contact. 
 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 7 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
1.6. 
Seasonal Preparedness 
1.6.1. 
CSIRO requires the Contractor undertake Seasonal Site Preparedness Audits as described in 
Item 1.6.4 and 1.6.5. The Contractor is to take a strategic and proactive approach to Seasonal 
Preparedness at each Site, providing timely and effective communications to the CSIRO 
Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator on risks to be addressed and any preparation 
works required including quotes where services fall within the scope of services of this 
Contract. Failure to undertake this essential task may be considered as a serious default on 
the part of the Contractor.  
1.6.2. 
The Contractor must provide the Services to ensure the existing fuel load in garden beds is 
continually decreased and an effective solution is implemented to eliminate the fire hazard 
of leaves blown into garden beds. 
1.6.3. 
As part of the annual performance review of the Contract (refer Item 1.13), the Contractor 
shall report on their demonstrated effectiveness in delivering Services to achieve the fire 
hazard reduction requirement in Item 1.6.2. 
1.6.4. 
Site Preparedness (Fire) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements 
below: 
(a) 
Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Contract Manager 
or Facilities Coordinator prior to the start of the fire season  
(b) 
Rectify identified issues from Fire Report if requested by the CSIRO Contract Manager 
or Facilities Coordinator  
1.6.5. 
Site Preparedness (Storm) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the 
requirements below: 
(a) 
Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Contract Manager 
or Facilities Coordinator prior to the start of the storm season  
(b) 
Rectify identified issues from Storm Report if requested by the CSIRO Contract 
Manager or Facilities Coordinator 
1.6.6. 
Where applicable Site Preparedness (Bushfire) Audits are required and at a minimum must 
follow the requirements below and as provided in the Checklist which will be confirmed by 
the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator. 
1.6.7. 
Where applicable Site Preparedness (Floods) Audits are required and at a minimum must 
follow the requirements below and as provided in the Checklist which will be confirmed by 
the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator. 
1.7. 
Incident Response Periodic and Reactive Services 
1.7.1. 
The services identified in this Item 1.7 will be required either periodically or when advised by 
the CSIRO Facilities Manager.  The Services are subject to the Contracted Schedule of Rates 
for each of these services as provided in Annexure A - Pricing Response and Service 
Frequency: 
(a) 
Monday to Friday 7.30am to 5.00pm 
(b) 
Monday to Friday after hours 5.00pm to 7.30am 
(c) 
Saturdays 
(d) 
Sundays and Public Holidays 
(e) 
Call out fee (if any) 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 8 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Incident Response  
1.7.2. 
Storm/wind damage – remove fallen trees, branches and dangerous limbs as requested by 
the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Trees and or branches to be removed within 24hrs if they are a 
HSE risk or in a high traffic area.  If not a HSE risk, implement safety measures (e.g. barriers, 
tape, cones) to ensure safety until corrective action completed. 
1.7.3. 
Storm/miscellaneous damage – remove or make safe [e.g. washed out refuse (soil, tanbark)] 
to ensure safety within 24hrs if they are a HSE risk or in a high traffic area.  If not a HSE risk, 
implement safety measures (e.g. barriers, tape, cones) to ensure safety until corrective 
action completed.  
Hand watering  
1.7.4. 
Hand water shrubs and plants under heat stress as directed by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.   
Replanting 
1.7.5. 
Ad hoc replacement of plants removed from garden areas. Contractor shall consult and 
recommend the appropriate replacement before to replanting. 
Mulching 
1.7.6. 
Inspect and assess garden beds. Supply and install hardwood mulch to garden bed 
surroundings. Spread mulch to approximately 75mm thick and raked area to even level or as 
otherwise directed by the Facilities Contact  
Tree Management 
1.7.7. 
Trim branches and remove dead limbs, diseased /dead trees, highlighted in the tree survey 
report, as requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Recycle all green waste and take offsite 
to a registered recycling facility, or as directed by CSIRO Facilities contact, mulch to be utilised 
on site 
1.7.8. 
Remove fallen tree branches as a result of sickness or adverse weather conditions. Branches 
shall be mulched and redistributed to the site garden beds if it is reasonably practicable. 
1.7.9. 
Pest control – treat diseased trees identified in the survey report with approved pesticides 
as requested by the Facilities Contact  
Site Preparedness (Fire) Audits 
1.7.10. 
Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Facilities Contact prior 
to the start of the summer fire season 
1.7.11. 
Rectify identified issues from Fire Report if requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact  
Slashing 
1.7.12. 
Undertake slashing to areas nominated by the CSIRO Facilities Contact to a height not greater 
than 150mm  
1.8. 
Equipment  
1.8.1. 
The Contractor will maintain a methodology relating to equipment maintenance and 
replacement. Service records and maintenance schedules must be provided if requested by 
CSIRO. 
1.8.2. 
Equipment used on site must be suitable for the Services being performed and incorporate 
innovative sustainable solutions. It is CSIROs preference for contractors to use low-emission 
and electric equipment  

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 9 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
1.8.3. 
No equipment, fuel or charging apparatuses are to be stored on site. 
1.9. 
Staffing and Personnel 
1.9.1. 
All contractor personnel and subcontractors must successfully complete the requirements 
below: 
(a) 
CSIRO Induction requirements 
(b) 
Approved List of Personnel and Subcontractors including ABN’s and emails 
(c) 
Attendance Register 
(d) 
Notify CSIRO of the removal of Contractor’s Employees 
(e) 
Management of authorised Personnel 
1.9.2. 
CSIRO requires consistency in the Contractor’s Personnel undertaking works onsite, high 
turnover of Personnel leads to Service disruption, increases risk and presents an 
administrative burden and therefore cost to CSIRO. CSIRO requires that the Contractor has 
in place an effective approach and program to both attract and retain qualified and 
experience personnel and further has an effective plan for personnel contingency at all levels. 
1.9.3. 
The Contractor shall ensure they have appropriately qualified and experienced personnel to 
undertake horticultural and garden maintenance. Proof of qualifications and experience 
must be provided if requested by CSIRO. The Contractor must provide a detailed description 
of their qualifications and/or experience in horticultural and garden maintenance.   
1.9.4. 
For qualifications, Contractor should identify all qualification achieved and the institution/s 
where each was completed. Proof of qualifications and experience must be available if 
requested by CSIRO 
1.9.5. 
All personnel working on Site must have current police check which is obtained every 12 
months. Reportable outcomes must be disclosed to CSIRO for review and decision with 
regard to suitability to work on Site. CSIRO retains the right to decline access to Site for 
personnel it deems as not suitable to perform Services on Site. 
1.9.6. 
All personnel working on site will be required to wear a uniform which readily identifies them 
while they are on site. The Contractor company name or logo is to be displayed on the 
uniform. 
1.9.7. 
The Contractor will maintain an effective service redundancy/contingency plan including 
their ability to manage staff absences, both planned and unforeseen (e.g. holidays and sick 
leave). 
1.9.8. 
The Contractor is to avoid use of labour hire staff as a default part of their Contingency plan. 
Casual and labour hire staff are not exempt from personnel requirements in this Contract 
such as, but not limited to, experience, qualifications, inductions and police checks.  
1.9.9. 
The Contractor is to maintain and report on a Staff turnover/retention and Contingency 
management KPIs on an annual basis which will form part of CSIRO’s annual performance 
review of the Contract.   
1.9.10. 
CSIRO would welcome apprentices as part of the proposed and ongoing on-Site team. The 
Contractor shall maintain a ratio of experienced and fully qualified staff to apprentices of no 
less than 2:1 to ensure an adequate supervision and training environment for apprentices 
and to reduce risk of incidents and incomplete services 
1.10. Keys and Access Cards 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 10 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
1.10.1. 
Any access cards or keys issued by CSIRO to the Contractor’s Personnel, the Contractor is 
required to be responsible for them; and maintain a register of all access card and keys 
issued, showing to whom and when they were issued, together with the receiving 
Personnel’s signature confirming receipt. 
1.10.2. 
Any access cards or keys issued to grounds maintenance Personnel must not be transferred 
to another person. 
11.1. Prevention of Disturbance 
1.11.1. 
When working near staff or near occupied parts or areas of the site or buildings, the 
Contractor is required to perform the services in a manner that does not disturb or adversely 
affect the occupants or their use of those parts or areas.  
1.11.2. 
If works are being conducted that may create a disturbance, it is the requirement of the 
contractor and their personnel to notify CSIRO facility manager in advance   
1.12. Standards and Certifications  
1.12.1. 
The Contractor will be required to comply with all relevant Australian legislation and 
standards applicable to the equipment and services, which may include, but not be limited 
to: 
(a) 
Australian Electrical Standards 
(b) 
Work Health and Safety (WHS) / OHS Act Compliance 
(c) 
Safe Work Method Statements (SWMS) 
(d) 
AS/NZS ISO 45001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management) 
(e) 
Height Safety Standards (AS/NZS 1891) 
(f) 
Public Safety & Traffic Management (AS 1742.3) 
(g) 
Chemical Application & Biosecurity Regulations 
(h) 
AS 4373 (Pruning of Amenity Trees) 
1.12.2. 
The Contractor is required to provide all relevant certifications prior to commencement and 
upon request by CSIRO staff. 
1.12.3. 
It is the responsibility of the contractor to provide competent and qualified personnel subject 
to the job to adhere to all Australian standards.  
1.13. Performance  
1.13.1. 
The following Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been identified and will apply, as a 
minimum to the Successful Tenderers performance:  
(a) 
performance against conditions of contract 
(b) 
provision of accurate reports within agreed timeframes 
(c) 
cost control within allocated budget 
(d) 
quality of service delivery and performance 
(e) 
ongoing evidence is to be provided to the CSIRO Facility Manager of necessary licences 
or permits (for staff and business operations) on commencement of the Services and 
within two weeks for any new or renewed licenses 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 11 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(f) 
ongoing evidence of the appropriate insurances.  
1.13.2. 
The Successful Tenderer will be required to provide written reports on a monthly basis that 
cover at a minimum: 
(a) 
confirmation of regular services provided 
(b) 
details of all requests for additional services 
(c) 
performance against key performance indicators 
(d) 
details of all complaints received in the period, action taken to address those 
complaints and whether the complaint has been satisfactorily resolved 
Performance Assessment 
1.13.3. 
The Services performed under the Contract by the awarded Contractor may be subject to a 
performance management framework consisting of: 
(a) 
regular meetings between the parties 
(b) 
issues resolution 
(c) 
quarterly performance reviews 
(d) 
formal Contract compliance auditing 
(e) 
annual performance reviews 
1.13.4. 
CSIRO will take into consideration the results of the monthly performance reviews and any 
Contract compliance audits undertaken, in determining its options for any extensions to the 
Contract.  
1.13.5. 
Service Level Agreements will be developed/agreed as part of Contract negotiations with the 
Successful Tenderer. 
1.14. Reporting 
1.14.1. 
The Contractor shall provide written reports via email in word or pdf format, on a quarterly 
basis that cover at a minimum of: 
(a) 
confirmation of regular services provided including hours per site 
(b) 
details of all requests for additional services 
(c) 
performance against key performance indicators 
(d) 
details of all complaints received in the period, action taken to address those 
complaints and whether the complaint has been satisfactorily resolved  
(e) 
a summary of incidents that have occurred on each Site in the reporting period 
(f) 
Fuel Consumption - A quarterly report provided to the Facilities Manager or 
Coordinator, detailing: 
i. 
Fuel Type 
ii. 
Volume 
(g) 
Chemical Usage - A quarterly report provided to the Facilities Manager or Coordinator, 
detailing: 
i. 
Chemical type 
ii. 
date applied 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 12 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
iii. 
location of application 
iv. 
volume 
1.14.2. 
The Contractor will be required to provide written reports on an annual basis that cover at a 
minimum: 
(a) 
a review of service delivery performance against key performance indicators 
(b) 
a review of contract compliance 
(c) 
a review of the effectiveness of the service delivery plan  
(d) 
other reports as required by CSIRO 
1.15. Meetings 
Contract Governance Meetings 
1.15.1. 
A senior member of the Contractor’s team, typically the Contract Manager, is required to 
attend annual Contract governance meetings with CSIRO Representatives to discuss all 
relevant matters relating to the strategic objectives of the Contract, higher level strategic or 
business-related matters, and the status and quality of the contractual relationship generally. 
1.15.2. 
Each governance meeting will be chaired by CSIRO, and CSIRO will provide secretariat 
requirements of the meeting i.e. prepare meeting agendas and minutes 
1.15.3. 
At CSIRO’s discretion change the frequency of these meetings may change. This change must 
be in writing from CSIRO’s Contracts and Compliance Manager 
1.15.4. 
Regular agenda items for the 6 monthly meetings will include, but is not limited to, discussion 
on 
(a) 
characteristics of the contractual relationship 
(b) 
review of the previous three (3) quarterly Contractor Performance review reports in 
accordance Clause 1.14.3, Performance Assessment 
(c) 
serious or higher-level issues, which either party considers have not been satisfactorily 
resolved. 
(d) 
the findings of any formal Contract Compliance Audit, undertaken in the previous 
three months in accordance with Section 10, Contracts Compliance Audit 
Ad Hoc Meetings 
1.15.5. 
The Contractor is required to attend various meetings convened by CSIRO from time to time, 
and here deemed appropriate in the context of the Contractor’s responsibilities, represent 
CSIRO as its maintenance services provider; or in terms of any benefits to CSIRO drawn from 
the Contractor’s knowledge of the facilities, or industry knowledge and facilities maintenance 
expertise generally. 
1.15.6. 
Examples of ad-hoc meetings include but are not limited to meetings with: 
(a) 
Any CSIRO representatives relating to any incidental matters as they arise in 
connection with the Contract 
(b) 
any of CSIRO’s stakeholders, other service providers, its consultants and agents etc 
(c) 
HSE and Emergency Planning Committees 
(d) 
project or works planning and management group meetings 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 13 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(e) 
meetings with other government agencies or representatives, including statutory and, 
or regulatory authorities etc 
1.16. Service Delivery Plan 
1.16.1. 
A Service Delivery Plan shall be developed by the Contractor and is subject approval by CSIRO. 
The Service Delivery Plan is to include at a minimum;   
(a) 
Maintenance Program  
(b) 
HSE Management Plan 
(c) 
Risk Management Plan 
(d) 
Service Levels 
(e) 
Meeting Schedule  
(f) 
Key Performance Indicators  
(g) 
Other inclusion as required by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Manager e.g. 
i. 
Quality Assurance Plan 
ii. 
Personnel names, qualifications, certifications, and contacts 
1.16.2. 
The Service Delivery Plan will be monitored quarterly and reviewed at the annual 
performance review for effectiveness against the Contract requirements and the needs of 
CSIRO 
1.17. Transition In / Transition Out 
1.17.1. 
The Tenderer is to describe how they propose to transition-in from the current provider to 
CSIRO sites and set up the Service ready for operation on the commencement of this 
Contract.  
1.17.2. 
Within 14 days from the Effective Date, the Contractor may be required to provide to CSIRO, 
for approval by CSIRO (acting reasonably), a comprehensive Transition-in Plan (TiP). 
1.17.3. 
The TiP is required to include an agenda of tasks and actions, including: 
(a) 
the tasks to be completed and approved by CSIRO 
(b) 
any critical path tasks and sub tasks included in the TiP 
(c) 
who will be responsible for completing the tasks; and 
(d) 
priorities, timeframes and anticipated task completion dates. 
1.17.4. 
The Contractor may be required to attend weekly meetings with CSIRO during each 
Transition-in period to consult with CSIRO, discuss and resolve any issues as they arise, brief 
CSIRO on progress, and submit any material for approval. 
1.17.5. 
The Contractor may be required to appropriately resource the transition-in effort to ensure 
that all tasks are completed in accordance with the approved TiP. 
1.18. Sustainable Procurement  
1.18.1. 
CSIRO has set targets to achieve net zero scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030, net zero supply 
chain emissions (scope 3) by 2050, and to divert 80% or more of our waste from landfill by 
2030. In addition, CSIRO aim to maximise water efficiency on sites and lower consumption. 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 14 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
Tenderers Should provide: 
(a) 
A copy of their Sustainability and/or Environmental policies, and the organisation’s 
environmental targets. 
(b) 
Outline initiatives that the tenderer will implement at CSIRO sites to support CSIRO’s 
sustainability goals and targets. 
(c) 
Provide data or metrics relevant to energy, emissions or waste generated and water 
used relevant to this scope of works, where available.  
1.18.2. 
The Contractor will submit its sustainability report to CSRIO annually which is to include the 
following; 
(a) 
Waste recovered through recycling and resource recovery processing in tonnes and as 
a percentage of total waste per annum. 
(b) 
Water saving performance against agreed benchmarks 
(c) 
Energy saving performance against agreed benchmarks 
1.19. HSE Requirements  
Specific Health Safety & Environment (HSE) Requirements 
1.19.1. 
The Contractor will be required to survey the site for HSE hazards (e.g. suspended broken 
tree branches, dying unstable trees, unsafe walkways, missing drain covers, overflowing 
drains, chemical/fuel spills). 
1.19.2. 
Ensure area is safe and if possible, rectify any hazard immediately (e.g. removal of tree 
branches) or otherwise make temporary arrangements (e.g. erect a barricade). Keep a stock 
of barricade material (e.g. barrier tapes, witches’ hats, posts) readily available for this 
purpose. 
1.19.3. 
Notify the CSIRO Facilities Manager of relevant observations, actions, and safety 
recommendations immediately and in writing by COB next business day. 
1.19.4. 
Risk Management Plan and appropriate JSEA/SWMS submitted to CSIRO Facilities Manager 
prior to commencing any work on site. 
1.19.5. 
Dispose of all tree material including trunks and large limbs as directed by the CSIRO Facilities 
Manager. 
1.19.6. 
Comply with local council, State Government and Commonwealth laws, regulations, and 
safety codes, including but not limited to, Workplace Health and Safety, noise restrictions 
and workhour restrictions. 
General Health Safety & Environment Requirements 
1.19.7. 
The Contractor must provide evidence of current licences, registration, or certification where 
licencing, registration or certification is required for the performance of the contracted work 
(for example Arborist/Tree Surgeon, Climber certification, Horticulturalist). 
1.19.8. 
The Contractor will be required to ensure that prior to the commencement of any Contract 
work, all persons employed or engaged by the Contractor (including sub-contractors) to 
perform work for CSIRO: 
(a) 
have completed CSIRO General Induction and Site Specific Induction training within 
the previous two years 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 15 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(b) 
have provided CSIRO with evidence of a current licence for any work that requires a 
licence 
(c) 
undertake a security check if requested. 
1.19.9. 
The Contractor must ensure that prior to the commencement of any Contract work: 
(a) 
a Job Safety and Environment Analysis (JSEA) is prepared and provided to CSIRO for all 
tasks being undertaken as part of the Contract work 
(b) 
a Safe Work Method Statements (SWMS) is prepared and provided to CSIRO for all 
high risk work being undertaken as part of the Contract work 
(c) 
a HSE Management Plan is prepared and provided to CSIRO. 
1.19.10. During the performance of all Contract work, the Contractor must provide supervision for all 
persons employed or engaged by the Contractor (including sub-contractors). 
1.19.11. During the performance of all Contract work, the Contractor display appropriate signage and 
undertake precautions regarding pedestrian and traffic safety during servicing. 
1.19.12. The level of supervision must be sufficient to ensure that all work is conducted in accordance 
with JSEAs, SWMSs or HSE Management Plans provided to CSIRO for the work being 
undertaken. 
1.20. Supply Chain Integrity 
1.20.1. 
Entities can take action to combat modern slavery in their operations and supply chains to 
protect against possible business harm and improve the integrity and quality of their supply 
chains.  
1.20.2. 
Modern slavery is used to describe situations where coercion, threats or deception to exploit 
victims and undermine their freedom and is a violation of human rights. Practices can include 
human trafficking, slavery, servitude, forced labour, debt bondage, deceptive recruiting for 
labour and services, forced marriage and forms of child labour (i.e. slavery or hazardous 
work).  
1.20.3. 
The Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018 came into force on 1 January 2019 and defines 
the meaning of Modern Slavery. The Act requires entities based, or operating, in Australia, 
which have an annual consolidated revenue of more than $100 million, to report annually on 
the risks of modern slavery practices in their operations and supply chains (including those 
of entities it owns and controls), and actions to address those risks. As an Australian 
Government Agency, CSIRO must report on the risks of modern slavery in our operations and 
supply chains. 
1.20.4. 
Tenderers may be required to respond to questions in relation to Modern Slavery. Further 
information can be found at https:  
https://www.ag.gov.au/crime/people-smuggling-and-human-trafficking/modern-slavery    
1.21. Broader Economic Benefits to the Australian Economy 
1.21.1. 
This RFT requires consideration of the Broader Economic Benefits to the Australian Economy.  
Further information can be found at: 
https://www.finance.gov.au/sites/default/files/2020-08/consideration-of-broader-
economic-benefits-in-procurement.pdf. 
1.21.2. 
Economic benefits to the Australian economy may be achieved when the goods or services 
being procured: 

CSIRORFT2026019 - Ground Maintenance Services for CSIRO Managed Sites VIC Metro 
Page 16 of 16 
Version 3.0 updated 9 October 2024 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(a) 
Make better use of Australian resources that would otherwise be under-utilised 
(b) 
Otherwise increase productivity 
(c) 
Provides broader benefits that support the development and sustainment of industry 
capabilities. 
1.21.3. 
An increase in productivity-enhancing technology development and adoption can also deliver 
economic benefit, for example through: 
(a) 
research and development related activities and investments (including those 
undertaken with universities) 
(b) 
transfer of technology to Australian businesses such as through licensing 
arrangements for Intellectual Property 
(c) 
Indigenous workforce participation 
(d) 
engaging a business that provides services of persons with a disability 
(e) 
traineeships or apprenticeships in areas of skills shortage; or 
(f) 
boosting a tenderer’s international competitiveness (e.g. through greater efficiency or 
product innovation). 
1.22. Asbestos  
1.22.1. 
The Tenderer warrants that no asbestos will be used in the manufacture of any component 
of the Goods, including any packaging, except as otherwise disclosed in this Tender. 




============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: CSIRORFT2026019 Attachment B - TRS.docx
============================================================

Contents
Schedule 1.	Tenderer Details	7
Schedule 2.	Executive Summary	12
Schedule 3.	Response to Statement of Requirement	13
Schedule 4.	Quality Management and Compliance	33
Schedule 5.	Corporate Viability	37
Schedule 6.	Statement of Compliance	40
Schedule 7.	Pricing	43
Schedule 8.	Acknowledgements	46
Schedule 9.	Tender Response Documents	47
Schedule 10.	Tenderer’s Deed Poll	48
Response Checklist
Checklist
The following checklist is provided to assist preparing and submitting the tender response form. The checklist is a guide only. Tenderers should satisfy themselves that they have met all requirements in this RFT and should not rely on this checklist for this purpose.
Please return this checklist as the coversheet of your Tender.
Tender Response Schedules - Instructions
Response Schedules
The structure of the Tender Response Form is as follows:
Schedule 1 	Tenderer Details
Schedule 2 	Executive Summary
Schedule 3 	Response to Statement of Requirement
Schedule 4		Quality Management and Compliance
Schedule 5 	Corporate Viability
Schedule 6 	Statement of Compliance
Schedule 7 	Pricing
Schedule 8 	Acknowledgements
Schedule 9 	Tender Response Documents
Schedule 10 	Tenderer’s Deed Poll
RFT Response Instructions for Completion
The information you provide in this RFT Response will be considered in evaluating your organisation’s proven ability to meet the CSIRO requirements. 
Provide clear, concise information so as to demonstrate to the evaluation panel your ability to meet CSIRO’s requirements to a high standard.
The following instructions apply for completing Schedule 3 Response to Statement of Requirement. 
Some requirements are mandatory (Mandatory Requirement) and require a statement of compliance. Select the appropriate compliance statement from the drop-down box.  The compliance status must be in accordance with the following rules:
 “Comply” means:
In the case of a clause which is of an informative nature only, that the clause has been read and understood
In the case of a clause which specifies a requirement or characteristic of performance to be met by the Tenderer, that the Tenderer is able to provide the requirement or characteristic of performance as specified and
In the case of a clause which imposes a condition, that the condition is agreed to.
“Does Not Comply” means the condition, characteristic or performance requirement in the clause is not substantially met.
A response required in accordance with Clause 2.2.4 is to be provided as per the example below.
If a Tenderer fails to provide a statement of compliance for a Mandatory Requirement, the Tenderer will be regarded as being non-compliant.
All other requirements are desirable and require a response in the form of an explanation.  Please keep answers brief and to the point. Where the requirement is to describe a component of your services, the answers should not exceed 500 words, unless specifically stated in the answer box. If your answer exceeds the word count, please reference supporting documentation. Provide your response in the space as per the example below.
All responses should be input in the response document.  Exceptions only apply when the requirements specify a copy or an example of a document, in which case the attached document must be referenced as per the example below.
Instructions for Completion of Microsoft Excel based Worksheets
When requested to complete responses in the Excel worksheets provided, please ensure:
All relevant sections are completed by the Tenderer
Compliance statements are completed using the drop-down boxes.
Please provide your responses in the answer boxes in this document.
Add detail/comment if necessary, using a maximum of 500 words in the spreadsheet. If more information is required, or if the information you wish to submit is contained in existing material you may have, you should attach the document and provide a reference to the document.
Excel worksheets are password protected preventing any changes, other than the relevant areas for response. Please refrain from copying and pasting cells from another application where possible. If you do require to copy and paste, please be aware you will need to select the destination cell, then click into the format bar space at the top of the screen, and then click paste – to ensure the content adapts to the destination cell – and does not attempt to bring in source formatting.
Instructions for Completion of Deed Poll
The Tenderer is to ensure that the Tenderer’s Deed Poll at Schedule 10 is completed in accordance with the requirements and instructions set out in the relevant schedule.
The completed schedules are to be scanned and submitted as part of the Tender Response.
Tender File Formats and Naming Conventions 
Tenderers should save their Tender Response in the following format/s only:
Microsoft Word version 2003 or above (.doc or .docx)
Microsoft Excel version 2003 or above (.xls or .xlsx)
Adobe Acrobat format version 10 or above (.pdf). 
It is preferred that tenderers submit their non-pricing response in Adobe Acrobat (.pdf) format. Files may be compressed (.zip). Tenderers are not to use RAR files (.rar).
The Tender Response filename/s:
should not include characters or symbols
should incorporate the Tenderer’s name 
should reflect the various parts of the bid they represent, where the tender response comprises multiple files
should be short and succinct to avoid long file paths.        
Adobe Acrobat security settings should be set to allow content copying (copy and paste) and printing of the pdf file.
Tenderer Details
Tenderer Entity Details
Entity Details
The Tendering entity details are to be provided in Table 1.
Company Details
Where the Tendering entity response in Table 1 is a Company, the information in Table 2 is required to be provided. Please note, if you are Tendering as part of a consortium, all consortium members will be required to complete this section and provide as part of the Tender.
Trust Details
Where the Tendering entity response in Table 1 is a Trust, the information in Table 3 is required to be provided.
Conflict of Interest
Would a real or perceived conflict of interest exist, or a potential conflict arise, if your organisation, or where applicable the subcontractor, entered into a contract with CSIRO? If so, include full details and the strategies to manage the conflict.
Provide details in of any interests, relationships or clients which may or do give rise to a conflict of interest and the area of expertise in which that conflict or potential conflict does or may arise and details of any strategy for preventing conflicts of interest.
Has this response been prepared with any assistance from a current or former employee of CSIRO? If so, provide full details. If none, write ‘Nil”.
Outline the processes you have in place to handle any future conflict of interest (actual or perceived). 
Confidentiality of Tenderer’s information
Provide details of any aspects of this Response or any aspects of the proposed Contract that you consider should be kept confidential, with reasons. If none, complete the table with ‘Not Applicable’.
Information to assist you to assess whether the customer is able to treat particular information as confidential is available at: 
https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/buying-australian-government/confidentiality-throughout-procurement-cycle
Contact Details
Bid Manager, Contract Manager and Account Manager 
CSIRO wishes to develop a long-term relationship with the provider and work closely together to achieve maximum service efficiencies and value for money. CSIRO will require a nominated Bid Manager, Contract Manager and Account Manager noting that the Tenderer may nominate the same person for the roles of Contract Manager and Account Manager
The Bid Manager is the single point of contact through which further discussion or information about the tender can be coordinated.  The Bid Manager must have authority on behalf of the Tenderer to supply any acknowledgements required in the tender and to bind the Tenderer, and if a prime contractor, to bind all of its subcontractors.  The Bid Manager will be required during any contract negotiations (if such negotiations are necessary) and must have the authority to make decisions on behalf of the Tenderer.
The Contract Manager will be accountable for the Contract terms and conditions, and performance management.  
The Account Manager will be accountable for managing the client relationship, including delivering added-value aspects, such as networking opportunities, information on global best practice, white papers, etc.
Details of the nominated Bid Manager, Contract Manager and Account Manager are to be provided in Table 5, Table 6 and Table 7.
Executive Summary
Summary
Provide a brief (no more than 1 x A4 page) Executive Summary of your proposal highlighting any key aspects that you would like to bring to the attention of the Evaluation Team.
Response to Statement of Requirement
Capability and Experience
Scope
CSIRO, through this RFT, is seeking responses from suitably qualified and experienced service providers to provide grounds maintenance services at its Clayton Precinct (Clayton, Clayton North and Notting Hill), Aspendale, and Werribee (Sneydes Road and South Road).
The Contractor shall provide comprehensive preventive and reactive grounds maintenance and landscaping services to ensure all outdoor areas at the mentioned sites are maintained to a high standard of safety and presentation. 
Background
CSIRO operates an extensive portfolio of buildings and facilities across Australia. Through this RFT, CSIRO is seeking Ground Maintenance Services for the Site locations outlined in Table 1 CSIRO Regions and Site locations to ensure CSIRO maintains its obligations under the relevant statutes and regulations and provides a safe working environment for all staff. 
CSIRO has a requirement for the provision of the Services in the Victorian region for their Aspendale, Clayton Precinct (Clayton and Clayton North, Notting Hill), and Werribee Sneydes Road and South Road sites. 
Minimum Content and Format and Mandatory Requirements 
In accordance with the requirements set out in the RFT, CSIRO may exclude a Tender from further consideration where the Tenderer does not sufficiently demonstrate compliance with the Mandatory Requirements and Conditions for Participation. 
Minimum Content and Format Requirements
Tenderers must confirm that they meet the Minimum Content and Format Requirements, as outlined in clause 5.2 of the RFT Head Document, by providing supporting documentary evidence where applicable.
Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth)
Under Australian Government procurement policy, you are obliged to indicate whether or not your organisation is covered by the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) (the WGE Act). Your organisation is covered by the WGE Act if it is a ‘relevant employer’, defined as being a non-public sector employer (including higher education institutions, trade unions and not-for-profit organisations) of 100 or more employees in Australia. For information about the coverage of the WGE Act, contact the Workplace Gender Equality Agency on (02) 9432 7000.
Respondents to this RFT must provide details of their compliance with the WGE Act below. Where applicable and available, Tenderers should provide the letter of compliance from the Workplace Gender Equality Agency.
Further information is available at: http://www.wgea.gov.au/
Mandatory Requirements
Tenderers must confirm that they can deliver the Mandatory Requirements outlined in Clause 1.3 of Attachment A – SOR and provide supporting documentary evidence where applicable.
1.3.4	(SOR Item 1.3.1) Tenderers must confirm that they are attended all site visits for the below sites:
Requirements
Note: Tenderers are asked to provide a response to each of the criteria listed below. The Item numbers identified for each criterion are as per the Item numbers listed in Attachment A – SOR.
(SOR Item 1.4.1) The Contractor will be required to deliver Grounds Maintenance Services at the sites detailed in Table 1 CSIRO Regions and Site locations.
(SOR Item 1.4.2) The Contractor will be required to undertake: 
Grounds Maintenance services to ensure CSIRO sites are maintained in an acceptable general appearance, are safe to access, and that the tenderer is competent and has the required capability to service our sites. 
Ensure reception entries are priority areas and are to be kept to CSIRO standards. 
Services whereby the maximum time between site visits is two weeks, to ensure litter and weed control is at an acceptable level.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.4.3) The Contractor is to undertake Services within the working hours below:
Clayton Precinct, Werribee Sneydes & Aspendale:
Monday to Friday, 7:30am to 6:00pm (except for public holidays)
Werribee South Road:
Ad-hoc basis only Monday to Friday advised by CSIRO Facility Manager
  Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.4.4) In undertaking the services, the Contractor should comply with local council, State Government and Commonwealth laws, regulations and safety codes, including but not limited to, Workplace Health and Safety, noise restrictions and workhour restrictions.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Grounds Services 
(SOR Item 1.5.1) Lawn Maintenance
Mowing – Mow all lawn areas evenly to a height between 30-50mm;
Edging - Lawns trimmed to form a defined edge using a mechanical edger along pathways, kerbing, gutters, and around buildings, posts and garden beds and fences. No chemicals to be used as an edging alternative unless approved in writing by the CSIRO Facilities Contact; 
Mowing/edging clean-up – Grass clippings must not be allowed to build up on lawn areas. Sweep all grass clippings from adjacent roads, paths, hard surfaces immediately after mowing and edging. All green waste to be removed off site to a registered recycling facility; 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, plastic, cans, etc.) from all lawn areas. Sort and place in recycling and waste bins provided by CSIRO on site; 
Leaf fall – Remove leaves from all lawn areas and recycle at a registered facility off site; 
Weed control – Broadleaf weed spray all lawn areas, as needed at least twice per year, when requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Herbicides must comply with Australian Standards and be approved, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
 (SOR Item 1.5.2) Garden Maintenance
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, plastic, cans and loose debris) from all garden areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on site 
Garden clean-up – remove leaves, bark, twigs, branches, spent flower heads, dead/diseased plants and debris from garden beds and recycle at a registered facility off site 
Pruning – trim plants, hedges and shrubs to maintain a compact form, free from wayward growth, whilst still maintaining a healthy and tidy appearance. Ensure a 200mm gap is maintained between plants and the surface of any structure. Ensure that shrubs and plants do not encroach onto pathways, roads or courtyard areas. Ensure that signage, lighting and garden features are not obstructed by plant growth. Trees to be kept clean trunked for a clear line of sight and tidy presentation. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. 
Pest control – Inspect plants in garden areas for pests and treat with pesticides. Pesticides must comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite 
Weed control – remove all weeds from garden beds. Weeds below 300mm in height to be hand removed or sprayed out using an approved herbicide, above 300mm weeds must be removed by hand. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.5.3) Paths, Courtyards and Hard Stand
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, cans, etc.) from all paths, gravel/pebble areas, courtyards and hardstand areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on site 
Cleaning – vacuum, sweep or blow all footpaths, gravel paths, gravel/pebble areas paved areas, courtyards, and hardstands to remove all leaves and debris. Leaves and debris to be collected and recycled off site, not blown onto nearby lawns or garden beds 
Weed control – remove weeds by hand or with an approved herbicide. Chemical dyes must not be used in these areas. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite. 
Areas where blowers must not be used adjacent to CSIRO buildings will be advised on commencement 
Monitor and advise CSIRO Facilities contact of hazards such as moss/slippery pathways that could create a slip hazards to pedestrians
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.5.4) Roadways and Carparks
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, cans, etc.) from all Roadways and Carparks areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on site 
Cleaning – vacuum sweep or blow all roads and carparks to remove all leaves, plant debris, soil and silt.  Leaves and debris to be collected and recycled off site, not blown onto nearby lawns and gardens. Blowing shall not occur where vehicles are parked and damage may occur.
Weed control – remove weeds by hand or with an approved herbicide (approved in writing by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Chemical dyes must not be used in these areas. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite. 
Storm water drainage - Check road sumps, grate drains, spoon drains, kerb and gutter areas. Remove any leaves, debris and soil if its reasonably practicable. Report any areas requiring plumbers attention to the CSIRO Facilities Contact. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.5.5) HS&E Hazard Management 
Survey the site for HSE hazards (e.g. suspended broken tree branches, dying unstable trees, unsafe walkways, missing drain covers, overflowing drains, chemical/fuel spills) 
Ensure area is safe and if possible rectify any hazard immediately (e.g. removal of tree branches) or otherwise make temporary arrangements (e.g. erect a barricade). Keep a stock of barricade material (e.g. barrier tapes, witches hats, posts) readily available for this purpose. 
Notify the CSIRO Facilities contact of relevant observations, actions and safety recommendations immediately via email by COB next business day. 
Dispose of all tree material including trunks and large limbs as directed by the CSIRO Facilities contact 
Survey Tree Health and Safety – All trees on site to be surveyed and identified in a written schedule of trees that has a reference number per tree, location details, both textually and graphically presented, once yearly, by a qualified arborist or tree surgeon for clearance to building structures, power lines, paths and roads. Inspect for damage, dead branches and disease and provide a written report to the CSIRO Facilities Contact with recommendations and pricing.  Additional requirements may be required on a site-by-site basis, additional requirements will be advised by the Facilities Contact.
The contractor must review site and locale fuel load and manage to minimise risk of fire damage. All noted issues to be advised to CSIRO Facilities contact.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Seasonal Preparedness
(SOR Item 1.6.1) CSIRO requires the Contractor undertake Seasonal Site Preparedness Audits as described in Item 1.6.4 and 1.6.5. The Contractor is to take a strategic and proactive approach to Seasonal Preparedness at each Site, providing timely and effective communications to the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator on risks to be addressed and any preparation works required including quotes where services fall within the scope of services of this Contract. Failure to undertake this essential task may be considered as a serious default on the part of the Contractor. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.2) The Contractor must provide the Services to ensure the existing fuel load in garden beds is continually decreased and an effective solution is implemented to eliminate the fire hazard of leaves blown into garden beds.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.3) As part of the annual performance review of the Contract (refer Item 1.13), the Contractor shall report on their demonstrated effectiveness in delivering Services to achieve the fire hazard reduction requirement in Item 1.6.2.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.4) Site Preparedness (Fire) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements below:
Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator prior to the start of the fire season 
Rectify identified issues from Fire Report if requested by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.5) Site Preparedness (Storm) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements below:
Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator prior to the start of the storm season 
Rectify identified issues from Storm Report if requested by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.6) Where applicable Site Preparedness (Bushfire) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements below and as provided in the Checklist which will be confirmed by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.6.7) Where applicable Site Preparedness (Floods) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements below and as provided in the Checklist which will be confirmed by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Incident Response Periodic and Reactive Services
(SOR Item 1.7.1) The services identified in this Item 1.7 will be required either periodically or when advised by the CSIRO Facilities Manager.  The Services are subject to the Contracted Schedule of Rates for each of these services as provided in Annexure A - Pricing Response and Service Frequency:
Monday to Friday 7.30am to 5.00pm
Monday to Friday after hours 5.00pm to 7.30am
Saturdays
Sundays and Public Holidays
Call out fee (if any)
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Incident Response
(SOR Item 1.7.2) Storm/wind damage – remove fallen trees, branches and dangerous limbs as requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Trees and or branches to be removed within 24hrs if they are a HSE risk or in a high traffic area.  If not a HSE risk, implement safety measures (e.g. barriers, tape, cones) to ensure safety until corrective action completed.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.7.3) Storm/miscellaneous damage – remove or make safe [e.g. washed out refuse (soil, tanbark)] to ensure safety within 24hrs if they are a HSE risk or in a high traffic area.  If not a HSE risk, implement safety measures (e.g. barriers, tape, cones) to ensure safety until corrective action completed. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Hand Watering
(SOR Item 1.7.4) Hand water shrubs and plants under heat stress as directed by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Replanting
(SOR Item 1.7.5) Ad hoc replacement of plants removed from garden areas. Contractor shall consult and recommend the appropriate replacement before to replanting.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Mulching
(SOR Item 1.7.6) Inspect and assess garden beds. Supply and install hardwood mulch to garden bed surroundings. Spread mulch to approximately 75mm thick and raked area to even level or as otherwise directed by the Facilities Contact 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Tree Management
(SOR Item 1.7.7) Trim branches and remove dead limbs, diseased /dead trees, highlighted in the tree survey report, as requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Recycle all green waste and take offsite to a registered recycling facility, or as directed by CSIRO Facilities contact, mulch to be utilised on site
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.7.8) Remove fallen tree branches as a result of sickness or adverse weather conditions. Branches shall be mulched and redistributed to the site garden beds if it is reasonably practicable.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.7.9) Pest control – treat diseased trees identified in the survey report with approved pesticides as requested by the Facilities Contact 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Site Preparedness (Fire) Audits
(SOR Item 1.7.10) Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Facilities Contact prior to the start of the summer fire season
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.7.11) Rectify identified issues from Fire Report if requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Slashing
(SOR Item 1.7.12) Undertake slashing to areas nominated by the CSIRO Facilities Contact to a height not greater than 150mm 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Equipment
(SOR Item 1.8.1) The Contractor will maintain a methodology relating to equipment maintenance and replacement. Service records and maintenance schedules must be provided if requested by CSIRO.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.8.2) Equipment used on site must be suitable for the Services being performed and incorporate innovative sustainable solutions. It is CSIROs preference for contractors to use low-emission and electric equipment 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.8.3) No equipment, fuel or charging apparatuses are to be stored on site.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Staffing and Personnel
(SOR Item 1.9.1) All contractor personnel and subcontractors must successfully complete the below requirements:
CSIRO Induction requirements
Approved List of Personnel and Subcontractors including ABN’s and emails
Attendance Register
Notify CSIRO of the removal of Contractor’s Employees
Management of authorised Personnel
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.2) CSIRO requires consistency in the Contractor’s Personnel undertaking works onsite, high turnover of Personnel leads to Service disruption, increases risk and presents an administrative burden and therefore cost to CSIRO. CSIRO requires that the Contractor has in place an effective approach and program to both attract and retain qualified and experience personnel, and further has an effective plan for personnel contingency at all levels.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.3) The Contractor shall ensure they have appropriately qualified and experienced personnel to undertake horticultural and garden maintenance. Proof of qualifications and experience must be provided if requested by CSIRO. The Contractor must provide a detailed description of their qualifications and/or experience in horticultural and garden maintenance.  
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.4) For qualifications, Contractor should identify all qualification achieved and the institution/s where each was completed. Proof of qualifications and experience must be available if requested by CSIRO
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.5) All personnel working on Site must have a current police check which is obtained every 12 months. Reportable outcomes must be disclosed to CSIRO for review and decision with regard to suitability to work on Site. CSIRO retains the right to decline access to Site for personnel it deems as not suitable to perform Services on Site.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.6) All personnel working on site will be required to wear a uniform which readily identifies them while they are on site. The Contractor company name or logo is to be displayed on the uniform.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.7) The Contractor will maintain an effective service redundancy/contingency plan including their ability to manage staff absences, both planned and unforeseen (e.g. holidays and sick leave).
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.8) The Contractor is to avoid use of labour hire staff as a default part of their Contingency plan. Casual and labour hire staff are not exempt from personnel requirements in this Contract such as, but not limited to, experience, qualifications, inductions and police checks. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.9) The Contractor is to maintain and report on a Staff turnover/retention and Contingency management KPIs on an annual basis which will form part of CSIRO’s annual performance review of the Contract.  
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.9.10) CSIRO would welcome apprentices as part of the proposed and ongoing on-Site team. The Contractor shall maintain a ratio of experienced and fully qualified staff to apprentices of no less than 2:1 to ensure an adequate supervision and training environment for apprentices and to reduce risk of incidents and incomplete services
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Keys and Access Cards
(SOR Item 1.10.1) Any access cards or keys issued by CSIRO to the Contractor’s Personnel, the Contractor is required to be responsible for them; and maintain a register of all access card and keys issued, showing to whom and when they were issued, together with the receiving Personnel’s signature confirming receipt.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.10.2) Any access cards or keys issued to grounds maintenance Personnel must not be transferred to another person.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Prevention of Disturbance
(SOR Item 1.11.1) When working near staff or near occupied parts or areas of the site or buildings, the Contractor is required to perform the services in a manner that does not disturb or adversely affect the occupants or their use of those parts or areas. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.11.2) If works are being conducted that may create a disturbance, it is the requirement of the contractor and their personal to notify CSIRO facility manager in advance.  
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Standards and Certifications
(SOR Item 1.12.1) The Contractor will be required to comply with all relevant Australian legislation and standards applicable to the equipment and services which may include, but not be limited to:
Australian Electrical Standards
Work Health and Safety (WHS) / OHS Act Compliance
Safe Work Method Statements (SWMS)
AS/NZS ISO 45001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management)
Height Safety Standards (AS/NZS 1891)
Public Safety & Traffic Management (AS 1742.3)
Chemical Application & Biosecurity Regulations
AS 4373 (Pruning of Amenity Trees)
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.12.2) The Contractor is required to provide all relevant certifications prior to commencement and upon request by CSIRO staff.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.12.3) It is the responsibility of the contractor to provide competent and qualified personnel subject to the job to adhere to all Australian standards. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Performance
(SOR Item 1.13.1) The following Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been identified and will apply, as a minimum to the Successful Tenderers performance: 
performance against conditions of contract
provision of accurate reports within agreed timeframes
cost control within allocated budget
quality of service delivery and performance
ongoing evidence is to be provided to the CSIRO Facility Manager of necessary licences or permits (for staff and business operations) on commencement of the Services and within two weeks for any new or renewed licenses
ongoing evidence of the appropriate insurances. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.13.2) The Successful Tenderer will be required to provide written reports on a monthly basis that cover at a minimum:
confirmation of regular services provided
details of all requests for additional services
performance against key performance indicators
details of all complaints received in the period, action taken to address those complaints and whether the complaint has been satisfactorily resolved
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Performance Assessment
(SOR Item 1.13.3) The Services performed under the Contract by the awarded Contractor may be subject to a performance management framework consisting of:
regular meetings between the parties
issues resolution
quarterly performance reviews
formal Contract compliance auditing
annual performance reviews
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.13.4) CSIRO will take into consideration the results of the monthly performance reviews and any Contract compliance audits undertaken, in determining its options for any extensions to the Contract.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.13.5) Service Level Agreements will be developed/agreed as part of Contract negotiations with the Successful Tenderer.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Reporting
(SOR Item 1.14.1) The Contractor shall provide written reports via email in word or pdf format, on a quarterly basis that cover at a minimum of:
confirmation of regular services provided including hours per site
details of all requests for additional services
performance against key performance indicators
details of all complaints received in the period, action taken to address those complaints and whether the complaint has been satisfactorily resolved 
a summary of incidents that have occurred on each Site in the reporting period
Fuel Consumption - A quarterly report provided to the Facilities Manager or Coordinator, detailing:
Fuel Type
Volume
Chemical Usage - A quarterly report provided to the Facilities Manager or Coordinator, detailing:
Chemical type
date applied
location of application
volume
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.14.2) The Contractor will be required to provide written reports on an annual basis that cover at a minimum:
a review of service delivery performance against key performance indicators
a review of contract compliance
a review of the effectiveness of the service delivery plan 
other reports as required by CSIRO
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Meetings
Contract Governance Meetings
(SOR Item 1.15.1) A senior member of the Contractor’s team, typically the Contract Manager, is required to attend annual Contract governance meetings with CSIRO Representatives to discuss all relevant matters relating to the strategic objectives of the Contract, higher level strategic or business-related matters, and the status and quality of the contractual relationship generally.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.15.2) A Each governance meeting will be chaired by CSIRO, and CSIRO will provide secretariat requirements of the meeting i.e. prepare meeting agendas and minutes.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.15.3) A At CSIRO’s discretion change the frequency of these meetings may change. This change must be in writing from CSIRO’s Contracts and Compliance Manager
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.15.4) A Regular agenda items for the 6 monthly meetings will include, but is not limited to, discussion on
characteristics of the contractual relationship
review of the previous three (3) quarterly Contractor Performance review reports in accordance Clause 1.14.3, Performance Assessment
serious or higher-level issues, which either party considers have not been satisfactorily resolved.
the findings of any formal Contract Compliance Audit, undertaken in the previous three months in accordance with Section 10, Contracts Compliance Audit
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Ad Hoc Meetings
(SOR Item 1.15.5)  The Contractor is required to attend various meetings convened by CSIRO from time to time, and here deemed appropriate in the context of the Contractor’s responsibilities, represent CSIRO as its maintenance services provider; or in terms of any benefits to CSIRO drawn from the Contractor’s knowledge of the facilities, or industry knowledge and facilities maintenance expertise generally.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.15.6) Examples of ad-hoc meetings include but are not limited to meetings with:
Any CSIRO representatives relating to any incidental matters as they arise in connection with the Contract
any of CSIRO’s stakeholders, other service providers, its consultants and agents etc
HSE and Emergency Planning Committees
project or works planning and management group meetings
meetings with other government agencies or representatives, including statutory and, or regulatory authorities etc
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Service Delivery Plan
(SOR Item 1.16.1) A Service Delivery Plan shall be developed by the Contractor and is subject approval by CSIRO. The Service Delivery Plan is to include at a minimum;  
Maintenance Program 
HSE Management Plan
Risk Management Plan
Service Levels
Meeting Schedule 
Key Performance Indicators 
Other inclusion as required by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Manager e.g.
Quality Assurance Plan
Personnel names, qualifications, certifications, and contacts
  Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.16.2) The Service Delivery Plan will be monitored quarterly and reviewed at the annual performance review for effectiveness against the Contract requirements and the needs of CSIRO
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Transition In / Transition Out
(SOR Item 1.17.1) The Tenderer is to describe how they propose to transition-in from the current provider to CSIRO sites and set up the Service ready for operation on the commencement of this Contract. 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.17.2) Within 14 days from the Effective Date, the Contractor may be required to provide to CSIRO, for approval by CSIRO (acting reasonably), a comprehensive Transition-in Plan (TiP).
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.17.3) The TiP is required to include an agenda of tasks and actions, including:
the tasks to be completed and approved by CSIRO
any critical path tasks and sub tasks included in the TiP
who will be responsible for completing the tasks; and
priorities, timeframes and anticipated task completion dates.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.17.4) The Contractor may be required to attend weekly meetings with CSIRO during each Transition-in period to consult with CSIRO, discuss and resolve any issues as they arise, brief CSIRO on progress, and submit any material for approval.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
(SOR Item 1.17.5) The Contractor may be required to appropriately resource the transition-in effort to ensure that all tasks are completed in accordance with the approved TiP.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
Asbestos
(SOR Item 1.22.1) The Tenderer warrants that no asbestos will be used in the manufacture of any component of the Goods, including any packaging, except as otherwise disclosed in this Tender.
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of their ability to meet the above criterion
 Capacity
Experience
CSIRO is seeking to engage experienced quality providers who are leading organisations in their field and who can demonstrate a record of delivery of successful and effective grounds maintenance services Tenderers are to provide details of their experience in grounds maintenance.
Previous work
Provide a detailed response regarding any previous work undertaken which is similar in nature and relevant to the goods and/or services required by CSIRO. Provide the following details at a minimum:
Client, including type i.e. Commonwealth Government, research organisation or private sector
nature of the goods and/or services
duration or term of arrangement.
Key Personnel
Provide clear, concise details of the key personnel responsible for delivery of the requirements.
Subcontractors
Provide details of each subcontractor organisation and identify the roles or the specific parts of the Contract you will use in the tables below. If no subcontractors are proposed write ‘Not Applicable’.
Development and Support
Tenderers are asked to provide details of any initiatives and/or activities it undertakes to promote the engagement of local Indigenous people into employment, including opportunities for entry level participants and the percentage of overall workforce engaged locally.
Current work
Provide a detailed response regarding any current work which is similar in nature and relevant to the goods and/or services required by CSIRO. Provide the following details at a minimum:
Client, including type i.e. Commonwealth Government, research organisation or private sector
nature of the goods and/or services and
duration or term of arrangement.
Taking into consideration current work, Tenderers are to confirm that they have the capacity to provide the Services required by CSIRO. 
Additional information
Provide any additional capacity details relevant to this proposal that you have not already included but want the Evaluation Panel to consider. Any information included here should be relevant to this proposal and be as concise as possible.
Quality Management and Compliance
Quality Management 
Quality Management Systems
Does your organisation have a certified Quality Management System?  If YES, to which standard are you accredited? 
If you are not currently certified but are currently in the process of achieving certification provide details in Table 1 Quality Certification.
If you are not in the process of achieving certification, provide details of how you intend to ensure that the Goods or Services will meet CSIRO requirements and industry standards for quality.
If required, are you prepared to undergo a quality assessment by CSIRO or its representatives?
Provide a draft Quality Plan outlining how your organisation would ensure that quality standards were being maintained and monitored, particularly in relation to Attachment A of this RFT.
Compliance
Work Health and Safety 
Tenderers will be required to comply with relevant legislation, regulations and Codes of Practice for the applicable state. For Work Health and Safety information and guidance see link below.
https://www.business.gov.au/risk-management/health-and-safety/work-health-and-safety  
Work Health and Safety legislation requires all persons conducting a business to eliminate risks to health and safety wherever reasonably practicable; otherwise, to minimise those risks.
Provide documentary evidence of existing work health and safety management systems and any third-party accreditation as applicable or relevant in the context of the delivering the requirements.
Provide details of your organisation’s Work Health and Safety Management Plan as applicable or relevant in the context of the delivering the requirements.
Supply Chain Integrity 
How much visibility does your organisation have over your supply chain? Please select one of the below and explain why you selected this option:
Does your organisation have a policy or policies in place to deal with modern slavery?
Describe any actions your organisation undertakes to support this code and/or policy including what actions you require/request your contractors to do. For example, are your contractors registered on the Home Affairs Modern Slavery register, have your contractors lodged their WGE compliance certificate.
Does your organisation have a person or team responsible for overseeing modern slavery risks (including record keeping regarding contractors and subcontractors) that arise in relation to the goods or services that you deliver?
Are staff in your organisation trained on how to identify, assess and respond to modern slavery risks?
Does your organisation perform screening of all prospective suppliers to assess the risks of modern slavery or other human rights harms that may occur in its operations and supply chains?
Are you aware of low-skilled migrant workers working in your organisation’s supply chains?
Describe any actions your organisation undertakes to assess your supply chain against relevant labour standards.
How would your organisation respond to any allegation of modern slavery or substandard working conditions in its operations or supply chains?
Does your organisation engage in any other due diligence activities to identify, prevent and mitigate risks specific to modern slavery in its operations and supply chains? If so, please describe these activities. 
Provide a copy of any purchasing code of practice (if any) and human rights policy (if any) that your organisation uses.
Broader Economic Benefits to the Australian Economy 
Tenderers are to provide a detailed description of how they will promote the engagement of local Australian industry, ensuring that full, fair, and reasonable opportunity is afforded to local industry Australian suppliers in the delivery of the requirements.  
Further information in relation to Broader Economic Benefits to the Australian Economy and how to interpret the information can be found at:
https://www.finance.gov.au/sites/default/files/2020-08/consideration-of-broader-economic-benefits-in-procurement.pdf
Corporate Viability
Financial, Legal and Insurance
Financial
Provide a brief financial overview or statement for last three complete financial year periods.
Provide the last 3 years financial statements.
Insurance
Provide details of your Public Liability Insurance for an amount $20,000,000.
Provide a copy of your certificate of Public Liability Insurance. 
Provide details of your Product Insurance for an amount $10,000,000.
Provide a copy of your certificate of Product Insurance. 
Workers Compensation
Provide a copy of your certificate of currency for Workers Compensation Insurance, as required under the relevant statutes or regulations. 
If the Workers Compensation Insurance is not in the name of the Tendering Entity, additional details are required to explain why. For example: explain why a Certificate of Currency may contain 0 (zero) employees or $0 value etc.
Subcontractors
Provide details of each subcontractor organisation and identify the roles or the specific parts of the Contract you will use in Table 1 and Table 2. If no subcontractors are proposed write ‘Not Applicable’.
Referees
Provide three referees where you have conducted similar goods and/or services to those set out in the Statement of Requirements. 
Tenderers are not to provide CSIRO staff as referees.
Statement of Compliance
RFT and Contract Compliance
Compliance
The Tenderer's statements of compliance should be limited to the following expressions: 
“Compliant”
"Partially Compliant" and 
"Non-Compliant"
in accordance with the meanings set out in Table 1 Compliance Term Definitions.
Where an offer does not comply with one or more clauses of a Schedule, (i.e. if the Tenderer specifies responses of “Partially Compliant” or “Non-Compliant”), for each instance of partial or non-compliance the Tenderer should:
state the extent of non-compliance, or provide the Tenderer's alternative proposal and
describe the Tenderer's proposed amendments to the clauses in respect of which there is any non-compliance.
The Tenderer should be aware that non-committal terms such as “Noted” or a failure to respond may be assessed as a “Non-Compliant” response.
The Tenderer should note that responses of "Partially Compliant" or "Non-Compliant" will not automatically exclude a Tender from further consideration, although the degree of compliance may be a factor in the evaluation process.
RFT Compliance
The Tenderer is required to complete the Statement of Compliance response in Table 2 RFT Compliance Response in accordance with the instructions set out in this Schedule 6.
If a proposed tender fully complies with the requirements of the RFT, in accordance with the RFT Head Document then the Tenderer may simply state in their response to this Schedule 6 “Compliant”.
Where a Tenderer is unable to comply with clauses of this RFT, the Tenderer should, in the order in which the clauses appear, provide the details of non-compliance in Table 2 RFT Compliance Response. A statement of compliance may be indicated against groups of clauses or paragraphs (e.g. clauses 3.10 to 3.20 inclusive - “Partially Compliant”). If no response in Table 2 is provided, the Tenderer  will be considered to be fully compliant.
Contract Compliance
The Tenderer is required to complete the Statement of Compliance response in Table 3 Contract Compliance Response in accordance with the instructions set out in this Schedule 6.
If a proposed tender fully complies with the requirements of the Contract, then the Tenderer may simply state in their response to this Schedule 6 “Compliant”.
Where a Tenderer is unable to comply with clauses of the Draft Contract, the Tenderer should, in the order in which the clauses appear, provide the details of non-compliance in Table 3 Contract Compliance Response. A statement of compliance may be indicated against groups of clauses or paragraphs (e.g. clauses 3.10 to 3.20 inclusive - “Partially Compliant”). If no response in Table 3 is provided, the Tenderer  will be considered to be fully compliant.
Alternative Tender Information
Where a Tenderer also submits an Alternative Tender, it must include any supplementary material, together with associated prices, which demonstrates in detail that such an alternative will fully achieve and/or exceed all the specified outputs or functional and performance requirements together with references as to why the additional features may be advantageous. The details should be cross referenced to the appropriate paragraph in the Statement of Requirement at Attachment A of this RFT.
Provide details of supplementary information provided as an attachment to this Response. 
Pricing
Pricing Requirements
Overview of Pricing
This Schedule sets out the pricing requirements of CSIRO under the Draft Contract.
CSIRO is requesting pricing which will provide it with value for money and transparency in pricing. This Schedule 7 has been structured to reflect the RFT and to enable Tenderers to match their pricing to the underlying Goods and Services requested. 
Pricing Tables
The Tenderer is required to complete and submit as part of their Response the Pricing Tables set out in the Microsoft Excel workbook, RFT Pricing Tables, provided as Annexure A to this Schedule 7.
The Pricing Tables consist of a number of Microsoft Excel worksheets and tables which when completed will comprise the Tenderer’s pricing proposal. 
General Requirements for Pricing
This RFT requires pricing to be presented as per the following instructions:
Measurement must be expressed in Australian legal units of measurement (unless otherwise in this RFT).
All prices are required to be stated in Australian dollars $ (unless otherwise specified).
The Tenderer is to complete the Pricing Tables in the format provided and to complete all of the sections of the Pricing Tables. 
When proposing prices, the Tenderer is required to:
Provide pricing including GST. Where GST is applicable to Goods or Services which are ‘taxable supplies’ within the meaning of the GST Law, GST will be included in any invoiced amount. 
Except in accordance with Clause 1.4, International Orders, include all taxes, duties and charges imposed or levied in Australia and overseas in connection with the performance of the Contract.
Tender prices must not vary according to the mode of payment or alter during the period of Tender validity. The Tenderer must assume the risk of any currency fluctuations in respect of those underlying costs of its technical solution or Services that the Tenderer incurs in a currency other than Australian dollars.
International Orders
Orders for internationally sourced Items will be processed by the Tenderer in accordance with relevant Australian Customs, Taxation and Transportation Legislation. Documentation verifying that correct procedures have been undertaken is to be provided for internationally sourced Items.
By virtue of Customs By-Law No. 2000668, CSIRO is exempt from duties in respect of imports of scientific instruments or apparatus to which: 
Annex D to the Agreement on the Importation of Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials Agreement 1950 (the UNESCO Florence Agreement); or
Annex D to the Protocol to the Agreement on Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials Protocol 1976 (the Nairobi Protocol)
apply.
The Tenderer should note the CSIRO’s standard 20-day period for the payment of invoices following receipt of a correctly rendered Tax Invoice. 
Whole of Life Cost
Prices submitted by the Tenderer should include all costs associated with supplying the Goods and Services and doing all things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the Contract. These include import duties and charges, freight, licence fees, royalty payments and the services of any representatives, including third parties. 
In the evaluation process, CSIRO may, at its absolute discretion, consider and if necessary, adjust offered prices in order to establish a common basis for the comparison of Tenders. Such adjustments may include but are not limited to:
consideration of normalised and discounted cash flow
cost of administration of the Contract
any assumptions or other caveats attaching to the offered price 
adjustment for errors
analysis of risks related to a Tender; and
other costs, if any, or financial impacts on CSIRO that may arise from appointing a particular Tenderer.
CSIRO also reserves the right to seek clarification on any pricing matters in respect of pricing from each Tenderer or short-listed Tenderers, if it is deemed necessary to determine a clear value for money outcome for CSIRO.
Pricing Basis
Tendered pricing for the base requirements, optional items and consumables must be separately itemised and is required to include at a minimum:
Unit rates for each item
quantities proposed
service intervals and/or consumption rates (where applicable) and
Tenderer pricing assumptions or caveats
The Tenderer is required to detail all assumptions and the cost drivers which it relied upon in developing the proposed pricing.
Inflation
The Tendered Prices set out in the Response must not include an allowance for inflation. Where:
the Contract specifies a Term, inclusive of any optional extension periods, which is greater than 1 year; and/or
the Tenderer is able to demonstrate supplier costs are subject to inflationary increases or decreases
CSIRO may consider a proposal for a Contract mechanism to adjust Tendered Prices for inflation.
CSIRO favours an adjustment mechanism that is based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI). 
Where a mechanism is agreed by CSIRO, an inflation adjustment will be applied each anniversary during the Term. The first adjustment will be applied on the first anniversary of the Contract commencement. 
Discounts and Incentives
Tenderers should identify in their Response any discounts that will apply based upon:
Discounts or incentives 
Discounts for early payment of invoices; and/or
Any other option or incentive arrangements proposed by the Tenderer.
Acknowledgements
RFT Documents Issued
The Tenderer is required to acknowledge the following documents were received and relied upon in the development of the Response to the RFT.
If Addendums have been issued for this RFT, please outline below your acknowledgement that these have been received and reviewed.
Tender Response Documents
Documents
Tenderers are to identify each document name and associated filename submitted to CSIRO as part of their RFT proposal. 
Tenderer’s Deed Poll
In this Deed Poll, terms not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the RFT.
Compliance with the Tender
In preparing its response and participating in the Tender process, the Tenderer has fully complied with the requirements and the conditions of the Tender.
Tenderer’s acknowledgement of Conditions of Tender
The Tenderer undertakes to participate in the Tender process in accordance with the RFT and based on the response. 
The Tenderer’s response is complete relating to all matters in the Conditions of Tender.
The Tenderer’s response shall remain open for the Offer Period.
Conflict of Interest
Other than as set out in the Tender Response Form, the Tenderer confirms that there are no conflicts of interest that may affect its ability to provide the Goods and/or Services.
Collusion
The Tenderer warrants that, if required by CSIRO, a senior officer of the Tenderer shall sign a statutory declaration containing a statement to the following effect:
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents has entered into, or will enter into, any contract, arrangement or understanding to pay any money or provide any other benefit to a professional association in respect of the Tender, the Contract or any contract resulting there from.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents had knowledge of the tender sum of any other Tenderer prior to or at the time the Tenderer submitted its Tender.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents has disclosed, or will disclose, prior to the Tender Closing Time and Date, the Tender Price submitted by the Tenderer to any other Tenderer who submitted a Tender, or Tenderer who proposes to submit a Tender, or to any other person or organisation.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents has provided, or will provide, information to any other Tenderer, person or organisation, to assist another Tenderer to prepare a tender known as a “cover bid”, whereby the Tenderer is of the opinion or belief that another Tenderer does not intend to genuinely compete for the award of the Contract.
The Tenderer is genuinely competing for the award of the Contract and its Tender is not a “cover bid”.
Prior to the Tenderer submitting its Tender, neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents entered into any contract, arrangement or understanding having the result that on or after being awarded the Contract, the Tenderer would pay to any other Tenderer who unsuccessfully tendered, any moneys or provide any other benefit or other financial advantage in respect of the Tender, or any Contract resulting from it.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees or agents has entered into or will enter into any contract, arrangement or understanding having the result that on or after being awarded a Contract, the Tenderer would pay to an association or any other association, any moneys or provide any other benefit or other financial advantage to or on behalf of any other Tenderer who unsuccessfully tendered for the Services.
Other Matters
The Tenderer or any party proposed by the Tenderer to deliver any Goods and Services to CSIRO:
has not been named under the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) 
is not listed as designated entity by the Minister of Foreign Affairs by notice in the Gazette under s 15 of the Charter of the United Nations Act 1945 (Cth) and
having made reasonable investigations, is not, and will continue to not be in contravention of any international law or convention in relation to forced labour or slavery, including the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery 1956.
The Tenderer has taken appropriate advice on the tender process and its requirements and understands and agrees to all conditions including, without limitation, obligations and acknowledgments included in the Tender Documents.
EXECUTED AS A DEED POLL for the benefit of the CSIRO



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: CSIRORFT2026019 Attachment C - Draft Contract v1.0.pdf
============================================================

 
Contract Number - 2576  
 
1 
  
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
  
 
 
Goods and/or Services Agreement 
 
 
between 
 
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial  
Research Organisation 
 
and 
 
insert Supplier Name 
 
For supply of Grounds Maintenance Services at CSIRO 
Victorian Sites 
 
 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
2 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Agreement Details 
 
Item 
Description 
Details 
1.  
CSIRO details 
Legal entity name: Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organisation 
ABN: 41 687 119 230 
Postal address: CSIRO Black Mountain Science and Innovation Park, GPO 
Box 1700 Canberra ACT 2601 Australia 
2.  
CSIRO Contract 
Administrator 
Name: insert details 
Position: insert details 
Phone: insert details 
Email: insert details 
3.  
Supplier details 
Name: insert details 
ACN: insert details, if applicable 
ABN: insert details 
Physical address: insert details 
Postal address: insert details 
4.  
Supplier Contract 
Manager 
Name: insert details 
Position: insert details 
Phone: insert details 
Email: insert details 
5.  
Commencement 
Date 
Insert the Commencement Date in the format DD Month YYYY, 
 
6.  
End Date 
Insert the End Date in the format DD Month YYYY. 
7.  
Option Period(s) (if 
any) 
Two Option Periods of one year each 
8.  
Total Contract Price 
AUD$[Insert amount made up of the applicable Charges, Fees and 
Expenses] (GST inclusive). 
9.  
Insurance 
Requirements 
Public liability 
Amount: $20,000,000 for any one claim and $20,000,000 in the annual 
aggregate. 
Period: This insurance must be maintained from the Commencement 
Date until expiry or termination of this Agreement (unless it is a claims-
made policy, in which case it must be maintained from the 
Commencement Date until seven years after the expiry or termination of 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
3 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Item 
Description 
Details 
this Agreement). 
Professional indemnity 
Amount: $10,000,000 for any one claim and $10,000,000in the annual 
aggregate. 
Period: This insurance must be maintained from the Commencement 
Date until seven years after the expiry or termination of this Agreement. 
Product liability 
Amount: $10,000,000 for any one claim and in the annual aggregate. 
Period: This insurance must be maintained from the Commencement 
Date until seven years after the expiry or termination of this Agreement. 
Workers’ compensation 
Amount: As required by Law. 
Period: This insurance must be maintained from the Commencement 
Date until the expiry or termination of this Agreement. 
10.  
Applicable Policies 
and Applicable 
Standards  
The Contractor must, at its own cost, obtain and maintain all licenses, 
registrations, accreditations, and certifications required by law or 
specified in this Agreement, Schedule 1.10 Standards and Certifications to 
perform the Services. 
 
 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
4 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Executed as an agreement 
 
SIGNED for and on behalf of the 
COMMONWEALTH SCIENTIFIC AND 
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANISATION by a 
duly authorised representative 
Name of authorised representative (print) 
Title of authorised representative (print) 
Signature of authorised representative 
Date 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
5 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Option A – execution under s127 (very common, preferred) – use when supplier is a registered 
Australian company and agreement to be signed by either two directors or director and secretary or 
sole director.  
SIGNED by [Insert name of Supplier and ABN] 
in accordance with section 127(1) of the 
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth)  
Name of Director (print) 
Name of Director / Company Secretary* 
(print) 
Signature of Director  
Signature of Director / Company Secretary* 
 
Date 
Date 
*Delete as applicable 
Option B – execution under s126 - use when supplier is an Australian registered company and unable 
to sign under s127 (for example, directors are unavailable or it’s a large corporation) – agreement to 
be signed by person authorised by the Supplier to enter into the agreement 
SIGNED by [Insert name of Supplier and ABN] 
by its authorised officer in accordance with 
section 126 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth)  
in the presence of: 
Name and title of authorised officer (print) 
Name of witness 
(print) 
Signature of authorised officer 
Signature of witness 
 
Date 
Date 
 
 
 
 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
6 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Schedule 1. 
Statement of Requirement 
1. 
Purpose 
1.1 
Through this contract, CSIRO requires qualified and experienced supplier to provide grounds 
maintenance services at its Clayton Precinct (Clayton, Clayton North and Notting Hill), 
Aspendale, and Werribee (Sneydes Road and South Road). 
1.2 
The Contractor shall provide comprehensive preventive and reactive grounds maintenance 
and landscaping services to ensure all outdoor areas at the mentioned sites are maintained to 
a high standard of safety and presentation.  
1.3 
CSIRO operates an extensive portfolio of buildings and facilities across Australia. Through this 
Contact, the Supplier is required to provide Ground Maintenance Services for the Site locations 
outlined in Table 1 CSIRO Regions and Site locations to ensure CSIRO maintains its obligations 
under the relevant statutes and regulations and provides a safe working environment for all 
staff. 
2. 
Goods and/or Service Requirements  
2.1 
The Contractor is required to deliver Grounds Maintenance Services at the sites detailed in 
Table 1 CSIRO Regions and Site locations: 
Table 1 CSIRO Regions and Site locations 
Region 
CSIRO Site Name 
Site 
No. 
Site Address 
Victoria 
Clayton 
6040 
Research Way, Clayton VIC 3168 
Clayton North 
6300 
71 Normanby Road, Clayton VIC 
3168 
Clayton, Notting Hill 
6280 
5 - 7 Commercial Drive, Notting 
Hill VIC 3168 
Aspendale 
6020 
107 
- 
121 
Station 
Street, 
Aspendale VIC 3195 
Werribee Sneydes 
Road) 
6320 
671 Sneydes Road, Werribee VIC 
3030 
Werribee South 
Road 
6310 
6 South Road, Werribee VIC 
3030 
2.2 
The Contractor is required to undertake: 
(a) 
Grounds Maintenance services to ensure CSIRO sites are maintained in an acceptable 
general appearance, are safe to access, and that the supplier is competent and has the 
required capability to service our sites.  
(b) 
Ensure reception entries are priority areas and are to be kept to CSIRO standards.  
(c) 
Services whereby the maximum time between site visits is two weeks, to ensure litter and 
weed control is at an acceptable level. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
7 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
2.3 
The Contractor is to undertake Services within the working hours below: 
(a) 
Clayton Precinct, Werribee Sneydes & Aspendale: 
(i) 
Monday to Friday, 7:30am to 6:00pm (except for public holidays) 
(b) 
Werribee South Road: 
(i) 
Ad-hoc basis only Monday to Friday advised by CSIRO Facility Manager 
2.4 
In undertaking the services, the Contractor is to comply with local council, State Government 
and Commonwealth laws, regulations and safety codes, including but not limited to, 
Workplace Health and Safety, noise restrictions and work hour restrictions. 
3. 
Grounds Services 
3.1 
Lawn Maintenance 
(a) 
Mowing – Mow all lawn areas evenly to a height between 30-50mm 
(b) 
Edging - Lawns trimmed to form a defined edge using a mechanical edger along pathways, 
kerbing, gutters, and around buildings, posts and garden beds and fences. No chemicals 
to be used as an edging alternative unless approved in writing by the CSIRO Facilities 
Contact;  
(c) 
Mowing/edging clean-up – Grass clippings must not be allowed to build up on lawn areas. 
Sweep all grass clippings from adjacent roads, paths, hard surfaces immediately after 
mowing and edging. All green waste to be removed off site to a registered recycling 
facility;  
(d) 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, plastic, cans, etc.) from 
all lawn areas. Sort and place in recycling and waste bins provided by CSIRO on site;  
(e) 
Leaf fall – Remove leaves from all lawn areas and recycle at a registered facility off site;  
(f) 
Weed control – Broadleaf weed spray all lawn areas, as needed at least twice per year, 
when requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Herbicides must comply with Australian 
Standards and be approved, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. A record of 
chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as 
part of all spraying events onsite. 
3.2 
Garden Maintenance 
(a) 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, plastic, cans and loose 
debris) from all garden areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on site  
(b) 
Garden clean-up – remove leaves, bark, twigs, branches, spent flower heads, 
dead/diseased plants and debris from garden beds and recycle at a registered facility off 
site  
(c) 
Pruning – trim plants, hedges and shrubs to maintain a compact form, free from wayward 
growth, whilst still maintaining a healthy and tidy appearance. Ensure a 200mm gap is 
maintained between plants and the surface of any structure. Ensure that shrubs and 
plants do not encroach onto pathways, roads or courtyard areas. Ensure that signage, 
lighting and garden features are not obstructed by plant growth. Trees to be kept clean 
trunked for a clear line of sight and tidy presentation. Recycle all green waste off site to a 
registered recycle facility.  
(d) 
Pest control – Inspect plants in garden areas for pests and treat with pesticides. Pesticides 
must comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO 
Facilities Contact. A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to 
the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite  

 
Contract number 2576 
 
8 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(e) 
Weed control – remove all weeds from garden beds. Weeds below 300mm in height to 
be hand removed or sprayed out using an approved herbicide, above 300mm weeds must 
be removed by hand. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. 
Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by 
the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to be kept and 
presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite. 
3.3 
 Paths, Courtyards and Hard Stand  
(a) 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, cans, etc.) from all paths, 
gravel/pebble areas, courtyards and hardstand areas. Sort and place in recycling bins 
provided by CSIRO on site  
(b) 
Cleaning – vacuum, sweep or blow all footpaths, gravel paths, gravel/pebble areas paved 
areas, courtyards, and hardstands to remove all leaves and debris. Leaves and debris to 
be collected and recycled off site, not blown onto nearby lawns or garden beds  
(c) 
Weed control – remove weeds by hand or with an approved herbicide. Chemical dyes 
must not be used in these areas. Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle 
facility. Herbicides to comply with Australian Standards and be approved for use, in 
writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  A record of chemical application will need to be 
kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities Contact as part of all spraying events onsite.  
(d) 
Areas where blowers must not be used adjacent to CSIRO buildings will be advised on 
commencement  
(e) 
Monitor and advise CSIRO Facilities contact of hazards such as moss/slippery pathways 
that could create a slip hazards to pedestrians 
3.4 
Roadways and Carparks  
(a) 
Litter pick – Pick up litter and general waste (e.g. paper, bottles, cans, etc.) from all 
Roadways and Carparks areas. Sort and place in recycling bins provided by CSIRO on site  
(b) 
Cleaning – vacuum sweep or blow all roads and carparks to remove all leaves, plant debris, 
soil and silt.  Leaves and debris to be collected and recycled off site, not blown onto nearby 
lawns and gardens. Blowing shall not occur where vehicles are parked and damage may 
occur. 
(c) 
Weed control – remove weeds by hand or with an approved herbicide (approved in 
writing by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Chemical dyes must not be used in these areas. 
Recycle all green waste off site to a registered recycle facility. Herbicides to comply with 
Australian Standards and be approved for use, in writing, by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  
A record of chemical application will need to be kept and presented to the CSIRO Facilities 
Contact as part of all spraying events onsite.  
(d) 
Storm water drainage - Check road sumps, grate drains, spoon drains, kerb and gutter 
areas. Remove any leaves, debris and soil if its reasonably practicable. Report any areas 
requiring plumbers attention to the CSIRO Facilities Contact.  
3.5 
HS&E Hazard Management  
(a) 
Survey the site for HSE hazards (e.g. suspended broken tree branches, dying unstable 
trees, unsafe walkways, missing drain covers, overflowing drains, chemical/fuel spills)  
(b) 
Ensure area is safe and if possible rectify any hazard immediately (e.g. removal of tree 
branches) or otherwise make temporary arrangements (e.g. erect a barricade). Keep a 
stock of barricade material (e.g. barrier tapes, witches hats, posts) readily available for 
this purpose.  

 
Contract number 2576 
 
9 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(c) 
Notify the CSIRO Facilities contact of relevant observations, actions and safety 
recommendations immediately via email by COB next business day.  
(d) 
Dispose of all tree material including trunks and large limbs as directed by the CSIRO 
Facilities contact  
(e) 
Survey Tree Health and Safety – All trees on site to be surveyed and identified in a written 
schedule of trees that has a reference number per tree, location details, both textually 
and graphically presented, once yearly, by a qualified arborist or tree surgeon for 
clearance to building structures, power lines, paths and roads. Inspect for damage, dead 
branches and disease and provide a written report to the CSIRO Facilities Contact with 
recommendations and pricing.  Additional requirements may be required on a site-by-site 
basis, additional requirements will be advised by the Facilities Contact. 
(f) 
The contractor must review site and locale fuel load and manage to minimise risk of fire 
damage. All noted issues to be advised to CSIRO Facilities contact. 
4. 
Seasonal Preparedness 
4.1 
The Contractor is required to undertake Seasonal Site Preparedness Audits as described in 
Item 4.4 and 4.5. The Contractor is to take a strategic and proactive approach to Seasonal 
Preparedness at each Site, providing timely and effective communications to the CSIRO 
Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator on risks to be addressed and any preparation works 
required, including quotes where services fall within the scope of services of this Contract. 
Failure to undertake this essential task may be considered as a serious default on the part of 
the Contractor.  
4.2 
The Contractor must provide the Services to ensure the existing fuel load in garden beds is 
continually decreased and an effective solution is implemented to eliminate the fire hazard of 
leaves blown into garden beds. 
4.3 
As part of the annual performance review of the Contract, the Contractor shall report on their 
demonstrated effectiveness in delivering Services to achieve the fire hazard reduction 
requirement in Item 4.2. 
4.4 
Site Preparedness (Fire) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the requirements 
below: 
(a) 
Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Contract Manager 
or Facilities Coordinator prior to the start of the fire season  
(b) 
Rectify identified issues from Fire Report if requested by the CSIRO Contract Manager or 
Facilities Coordinator  
4.5 
Site Preparedness (Storm) Audits are required and at a minimum must follow the 
requirements below: 
(a) 
Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Contract Manager 
or Facilities Coordinator prior to the start of the storm season  
(b) 
Rectify identified issues from Storm Report if requested by the CSIRO Contract Manager 
or Facilities Coordinator 
4.6 
Where applicable Site Preparedness (Bushfire) Audits are required and at a minimum must 
follow the requirements below and as provided in the Checklist which will be confirmed by the 
CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator. 
4.7 
Where applicable Site Preparedness (Floods) Audits are required and at a minimum must 
follow the requirements below and as provided in the Checklist which will be confirmed by the 
CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Coordinator. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
10 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
5. 
Incident Response Periodic and Reactive Services 
5.1 
The services identified in this Item 5 will be required either periodically or when advised by the 
CSIRO Facilities Manager.  The Services are subject to the Contracted Schedule of Rates for 
each of these services as provided in Annexure A - Pricing Response and Service Frequency: 
(a) 
Monday to Friday 7.30am to 5.00pm 
(b) 
Monday to Friday after hours 5.00pm to 7.30am 
(c) 
Saturdays 
(d) 
Sundays and Public Holidays 
(e) 
Call out fee (if any) 
Incident Response  
5.2 
Storm/wind damage – remove fallen trees, branches and dangerous limbs as requested by the 
CSIRO Facilities Contact. Trees and or branches to be removed within 24hrs if they are a HSE 
risk or in a high traffic area.  If not a HSE risk, implement safety measures (e.g. barriers, tape, 
cones) to ensure safety until corrective action completed. 
5.3 
Storm/miscellaneous damage – remove or make safe [e.g. washed out refuse (soil, tanbark)] to 
ensure safety within 24hrs if they are a HSE risk or in a high traffic area.  If not a HSE risk, 
implement safety measures (e.g. barriers, tape, cones) to ensure safety until corrective action 
completed.  
Hand watering  
5.4 
Hand water shrubs and plants under heat stress as directed by the CSIRO Facilities Contact.   
Replanting 
5.5 
Ad hoc replacement of plants removed from garden areas. Supplier shall consult and 
recommend the appropriate replacement before to replanting. 
Mulching 
5.6 
Inspect and assess garden beds. Supply and install hardwood mulch to garden bed 
surroundings. Spread mulch to approximately 75mm thick and raked area to even level or as 
otherwise directed by the Facilities Contact  
Tree Management 
5.7 
Trim branches and remove dead limbs, diseased /dead trees, highlighted in the tree survey 
report, as requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact. Recycle all green waste and take offsite to 
a registered recycling facility, or as directed by CSIRO Facilities contact, mulch to be utilised on 
site 
5.8 
Remove fallen tree branches as a result of sickness or adverse weather conditions. Branches 
shall be mulched and redistributed to the site garden beds if it is reasonably practicable. 
5.9 
Pest control – treat diseased trees identified in the survey report with approved pesticides as 
requested by the Facilities Contact  
Site Preparedness (Fire) Audits 
5.10 Inspect site throughout and provide a written fire audit to the CSIRO Facilities Contact prior to 
the start of the summer fire season 
5.11 Rectify identified issues from Fire Report if requested by the CSIRO Facilities Contact  
Slashing 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
11 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
5.12 Undertake slashing to areas nominated by the CSIRO Facilities Contact to a height not greater 
than 150mm 
6. 
Equipment  
6.1 
The Contractor will maintain a methodology relating to equipment maintenance and 
replacement. Service records and maintenance schedules must be provided if requested by 
CSIRO. 
6.2 
Equipment used on site must be suitable for the Services being performed and incorporate 
innovative sustainable solutions. It is CSIROs preference for contractors to use low-emission 
and electric equipment  
6.3 
No equipment, fuel or charging apparatuses are to be stored on site.  
7. 
Staffing and Personnel 
7.1 
All contractor personnel and subcontractors must successfully complete the below 
requirements: 
(a) 
CSIRO Induction requirements 
(b) 
Approved List of Personnel and Subcontractors including ABN’s and emails 
(c) 
Attendance Register 
(d) 
Notify CSIRO of the removal of Contractor’s Employees 
(e) 
Management of authorised Personnel 
7.2 
CSIRO requires consistency in the Contractor’s Personnel undertaking works onsite, high 
turnover of Personnel leads to Service disruption, increases risk and presents an administrative 
burden and therefore cost to CSIRO. CSIRO requires that the Contractor has in place an 
effective approach and program to both attract and retain qualified and experience personnel, 
and further has an effective plan for personnel contingency at all levels. 
7.3 
The Contractor shall ensure they have appropriately qualified and experienced personnel to 
undertake horticultural and garden maintenance. Proof of qualifications and experience must 
be provided if requested by CSIRO. The Contractor must provide a detailed description of their 
qualifications and/or experience in horticultural and garden maintenance.   
7.4 
For qualifications, Contractor should identify all qualification achieved and the institution/s 
where each was completed. Proof of qualifications and experience must be available if 
requested by CSIRO 
7.5 
All personnel working on Site must have a current police check which is obtained every 12 
months. Reportable outcomes must be disclosed to CSIRO for review and decision with regard 
to suitability to work on Site. CSIRO retains the right to decline access to Site for personnel it 
deems as not suitable to perform Services on Site. 
7.6 
All personnel working on site will be required to wear a uniform which readily identifies them 
while they are on site. The Contractor company name or logo is to be displayed on the 
uniform. 
7.7 
The Contractor will maintain an effective service redundancy/contingency plan including their 
ability to manage staff absences, both planned and unforeseen (e.g. holidays and sick leave). 
7.8 
The Contractor is to avoid use of labour hire staff as a default part of their Contingency plan. 
Casual and labour hire staff are not exempt from personnel requirements in this Contract such 
as, but not limited to, experience, qualifications, inductions and police checks.  

 
Contract number 2576 
 
12 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
7.9 
The Contractor is to maintain and report on a Staff turnover/retention and Contingency 
management KPIs on an annual basis which will form part of CSIRO’s annual performance 
review of the Contract.   
7.10 CSIRO would welcome apprentices as part of the proposed and ongoing on-Site team. The 
Contractor shall maintain a ratio of experienced and fully qualified staff to apprentices of no 
less than 2:1 to ensure an adequate supervision and training environment for apprentices and 
to reduce risk of incidents and incomplete services 
8. 
Keys and Access Cards 
8.1 
Any access cards or keys issued by CSIRO to the Contractor’s Personnel, the Contractor is 
required to be responsible for them; and maintain a register of all access card and keys issued, 
showing to whom and when they were issued, together with the receiving Personnel’s 
signature confirming receipt. 
8.2 
Any access cards or keys issued to grounds maintenance Personnel must not be transferred to 
another person. 
9. 
Prevention of Disturbance 
9.1 
When working near staff or near occupied parts or areas of the site or buildings, the 
Contractor is required to perform the services in a manner that does not disturb or adversely 
affect the occupants or their use of those parts or areas.  
9.2 
If works are being conducted that may create a disturbance, it is the requirement of the 
contractor and their personal to notify CSIRO facility manager in advance   
10. 
Standards and Certifications 
10.1 The Contractor will be required to comply with all relevant Australian legislation and standards 
applicable to the equipment and services which may include, but not be limited to: 
(a) 
Australian Electrical Standards 
(b) 
Work Health and Safety (WHS) / OHS Act Compliance 
(c) 
Safe Work Method Statements (SWMS) 
(d) 
AS/NZS ISO 45001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management) 
(e) 
Height Safety Standards (AS/NZS 1891) 
(f) 
Public Safety & Traffic Management (AS 1742.3) 
(g) 
Chemical Application & Biosecurity Regulations 
(h) 
AS 4373 (Pruning of Amenity Trees) 
10.2 The Contractor is required to provide all relevant certifications prior to commencement and 
upon request by CSIRO staff. 
10.3 It is the responsibility of the contractor to provide competent and qualified personnel subject 
to the job to adhere to all Australian standards.  
11. 
Performance 
11.1 The following Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been identified and will apply, as a 
minimum to the Contractors performance:  
(a) 
performance against conditions of contract 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
13 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(b) 
provision of accurate reports within agreed timeframes 
(c) 
cost control within allocated budget 
(d) 
quality of service delivery and performance 
(e) 
ongoing evidence is to be provided to the CSIRO Facility  Manager of necessary licences 
or permits (for staff and business operations) on commencement of the Services and 
within two weeks for any new or renewed licenses 
(f) 
ongoing evidence of the appropriate insurances.  
11.2 The Contractor will is required to provide written reports on a monthly basis that cover at a 
minimum: 
(a) 
confirmation of regular services provided 
(b) 
details of all requests for additional services 
(c) 
performance against key performance indicators 
(d) 
details of all complaints received in the period, action taken to address those complaints 
and whether the complaint has been satisfactorily resolved 
Performance Assessment 
11.3 The Services performed under the Contract by the Preferred Supplier may be subject to a 
performance management framework consisting of: 
(a) 
regular meetings between the parties 
(b) 
issues resolution 
(c) 
quarterly performance reviews 
(d) 
formal Contract compliance auditing 
(e) 
annual performance reviews 
11.4 CSIRO will take into consideration the results of the monthly performance reviews and any 
Contract compliance audits undertaken, in determining its options for any extensions to the 
Contract. 
11.5 Service Level Agreements is to be supplied to CSIRO facility manger within 14 days of contract 
signatory. 
12. 
Reporting 
12.1 The Contractor will provide written reports via email in word or pdf format, on a quarterly 
basis that cover at a minimum of: 
(a) 
confirmation of regular services provided including hours per site 
(b) 
details of all requests for additional services 
(c) 
performance against key performance indicators 
(d) 
details of all complaints received in the period, action taken to address those complaints 
and whether the complaint has been satisfactorily resolved  
(e) 
a summary of incidents that have occurred on each Site in the reporting period 
(f) 
Fuel Consumption - A quarterly report provided to the Facilities Manager or Coordinator, 
detailing: 
(i) 
Fuel Type 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
14 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(ii) 
Volume 
(g) 
Chemical Usage - A quarterly report provided to the Facilities Manager or Coordinator, 
detailing: 
(i) 
Chemical type 
(ii) 
date applied 
(iii) 
location of application 
(iv) 
volume 
12.2 The Contractor is required to provide written reports on an annual basis that cover at a 
minimum: 
(a) 
a review of service delivery performance against key performance indicators 
(b) 
a review of contract compliance 
(c) 
a review of the effectiveness of the service delivery plan  
(d) 
other reports as required by CSIRO 
13. 
Meetings 
Contract Governance Meetings 
13.1 A senior member of the Contractor’s team, typically the Contract Manager, is required to 
attend annual Contract governance meetings with CSIRO Representatives to discuss all 
relevant matters relating to the strategic objectives of the Contract, higher level strategic or 
business-related matters, and the status and quality of the contractual relationship generally. 
13.2 Each governance meeting will be chaired by CSIRO, and CSIRO will provide secretariat 
requirements of the meeting i.e. prepare meeting agendas and minutes 
13.3 At CSIRO’s discretion change the frequency of these meetings may change. This change must 
be in writing from CSIRO’s Contracts and Compliance Manager 
13.4 Regular agenda items for the 6 monthly meetings will include, but is not limited to, discussion 
on 
(a) 
characteristics of the contractual relationship 
(b) 
review of the previous three (3) quarterly Contractor Performance review reports in 
accordance Clause 13.3, Performance Assessment 
(c) 
serious or higher-level issues, which either party considers have not been satisfactorily 
resolved. 
(d) 
the findings of any formal Contract Compliance Audit, undertaken in the previous three 
months in accordance with Section 10, Contracts Compliance Audit 
Ad Hoc Meetings 
13.5 The Contractor is required to attend various meetings convened by CSIRO from time to time, 
and here deemed appropriate in the context of the Contractor’s responsibilities, represent 
CSIRO as its maintenance services provider; or in terms of any benefits to CSIRO drawn from 
the Contractor’s knowledge of the facilities, or industry knowledge and facilities maintenance 
expertise generally. 
13.6 Examples of ad-hoc meetings include but are not limited to meetings with: 
(a) 
Any CSIRO representatives relating to any incidental matters as they arise in connection 
with the Contract 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
15 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(b) 
any of CSIRO’s stakeholders, other service providers, its consultants and agents etc 
(c) 
HSE and Emergency Planning Committees 
(d) 
project or works planning and management group meetings 
(e) 
meetings with other government agencies or representatives, including statutory and, or 
regulatory authorities etc 
14. 
 Service Delivery Plan 
14.1 A Service Delivery Plan shall be developed by the Contractor and is subject approval by CSIRO. 
The Service Delivery Plan is to include at a minimum;   
(a) 
Maintenance Program  
(b) 
HSE Management Plan 
(c) 
Risk Management Plan 
(d) 
Service Levels 
(e) 
Meeting Schedule  
(f) 
Key Performance Indicators  
(g) 
Other inclusion as required by the CSIRO Contract Manager or Facilities Manager e.g. 
(i) 
Quality Assurance Plan 
(ii) 
Personnel names, qualifications, certifications, and contacts 
14.2 The Service Delivery Plan will be monitored quarterly and reviewed at the annual performance 
review for effectiveness against the Contract requirements and the needs of CSIRO 
15. 
Transition In/ Transition Out 
15.1 The Contractor is to describe how they propose to transition-in from the current provider to 
CSIRO sites and set up the Service ready for operation on the commencement of this Contract.  
15.2 Within 14 days from the Effective Date, the Contractor is required to provide to CSIRO, for 
approval by CSIRO (acting reasonably), a comprehensive Transition-in Plan (TiP). 
15.3 The TiP is required to include an agenda of tasks and actions, including: 
(a) 
the tasks to be completed and approved by CSIRO 
(b) 
any critical path tasks and sub tasks included in the TiP 
(c) 
who will be responsible for completing the tasks; and 
(d) 
priorities, timeframes and anticipated task completion dates. 
15.4 The Contractor may be required to attend weekly meetings with CSIRO during each Transition-
in period to consult with CSIRO, discuss and resolve any issues as they arise, brief CSIRO on 
progress, and submit any material for approval. 
15.5 The Contractor may be required to appropriately resource the transition-in effort to ensure 
that all tasks are completed in accordance with the approved TiP.

 
Contract Number - 2576  
 
16 
  
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
16. 
Sustainable Procurement 
16.1 CSIRO has set targets to achieve net zero scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030, net zero supply 
chain emissions (scope 3) by 2050, and to divert 80% or more of our waste from landfill by 
2030. In addition, CSIRO aim to maximise water efficiency on sites and lower consumption. 
16.2 The contractor is required to provide: 
(a) 
A copy of their Sustainability and/or Environmental policies, and the organisation’s 
environmental targets. 
(b) 
Outline initiatives that the supplier will implement at CSIRO sites to support CSIRO’s 
sustainability goals and targets. 
(c) 
Provide data or metrics relevant to energy, emissions or waste generated and water used 
relevant to this scope of works, where available.  
16.3 The Contractor will submit its sustainability report to CSRIO annually which is to include the 
following; 
(a) 
Waste recovered through recycling and resource recovery processing in tonnes and as a 
percentage of total waste per annum. 
(b) 
Water-saving performance against agreed benchmarks 
(c) 
Energy-saving performance against agreed benchmarks 
17. 
HSE Requirements 
Specific Health Safety & Environment (HSE) Requirements 
17.1 The contractor is required to Survey the site for HSE hazards (e.g. suspended broken tree 
branches, dying unstable trees, unsafe walkways, missing drain covers, overflowing drains, 
chemical/fuel spills). 
17.2 Ensure area is safe and if possible, rectify any hazard immediately (e.g. removal of tree 
branches) or otherwise make temporary arrangements (e.g. erect a barricade). Keep a stock of 
barricade material (e.g. barrier tapes, witches’ hats, posts) readily available for this purpose. 
17.3 Notify the CSIRO Facilities Manager of relevant observations, actions, and safety 
recommendations immediately and in writing by COB next business day. 
17.4 Risk Management Plan and appropriate JSEA/SWMS submitted to CSIRO Facilities Manager 
prior to commencing any work on site. 
17.5 Dispose of all tree material including trunks and large limbs as directed by the CSIRO Facilities 
Manager. 
17.6 Comply with local council, State Government and Commonwealth laws, regulations, and safety 
codes, including but not limited to, Workplace Health and Safety, noise restrictions and 
workhour restrictions. 
General Health Safety & Environment Requirements 
17.7 The Contractor must provide evidence of current licences, registration, or certification where 
licencing, registration or certification is required for the performance of the contracted work 
(for example Arborist/Tree Surgeon, Climber certification, Horticulturalist). 
17.8 The Contractor is required to ensure that prior to the commencement of any Contract work, all 
persons employed or engaged by the Contractor (including sub-contractors) to perform work 
for CSIRO: 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
17 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
17.9 have completed CSIRO General Induction and Site-Specific Induction training within the 
previous two years 
17.10 have provided CSIRO with evidence of a current licence for any work that requires a licence 
17.11 undertake a security check if requested. 
17.12 The Contractor must ensure that prior to the commencement of any Contract work: 
17.13 a Job Safety and Environment Analysis (JSEA) is prepared and provided to CSIRO for all tasks 
being undertaken as part of the Contract work 
17.14 a Safe Work Method Statements (SWMS) is prepared and provided to CSIRO for all high risk 
work being undertaken as part of the Contract work 
17.15 a HSE Management Plan is prepared and provided to CSIRO. 
17.16 During the performance of all Contract work, the Contractor must provide supervision for all 
persons employed or engaged by the Contractor (including sub-contractors). 
17.17 During the performance of all Contract work, the Contractor display appropriate signage and 
undertake precautions regarding pedestrian and traffic safety during servicing. 
17.18 The level of supervision must be sufficient to ensure that all work is conducted in accordance 
with JSEAs, SWMSs or HSE Management Plans provided to CSIRO for the work being 
undertaken 
 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
18 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Schedule 2. 
Pricing 
1. 
Total Contract Price 
1.1 
The Total Contract Price under this Agreement will not exceed AUD$ Insert amount made up 
of the applicable Charges, Fees and Expenses (GST inclusive). 
1.2 
 Refer to Annexure A – Pricing Tables for Grounds Maintenance Services 
2. 
Expenses 
2.1 
CSIRO will only pay for Expenses if the Supplier has complied with this Section 2.  
2.2 
Expenses must not include any Supplier mark-up or profit margin. 
2.3 
Expenses incurred by the Supplier will only be reimbursed by CSIRO if they have been pre-
approved in writing by CSIRO. 
2.4 
Unless pre-approved by CSIRO as an Expense, the Supplier agrees and acknowledges that all 
third party costs are at the risk of the Supplier. 
2.5 
To claim payment for a pre-approved Expense, the Supplier must provide relevant certification 
or supporting documentation (eg. third party invoices) in relation to the payment of the 
Expense at the time of invoicing. 
2.6 
When incurring Expenses, the Supplier must: 
(a) 
take advantage of any preferential purchase rates for products and services that are 
available to it (and charge those rates to CSIRO); and 
(b) 
demonstrate to CSIRO that the Expenses are reasonable and represent best value for 
money in the circumstances. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
19 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Schedule 3. 
Special Conditions 
 
1. 
Cyber Security Requirements  
1.1 
The Supplier must, and must ensure that its Representatives: 
(a) 
have awareness of, and fully comply with: 
(i) 
CSIRO’s security requirements, policies and procedures that are notified in writing by CSIRO 
to the Supplier from time to time, including those specified in this special condition; and 
(ii) 
all reasonable security directions and any mandatory training issued by CSIRO relating to 
the use of the CSIRO Systems; 
(b) 
provide the Goods and Services in a way that complies with, and ensures CSIRO can comply with 
the e Security Manual;  
(c) 
immediately report any security incidents of which it may become aware and confirm the same in 
writing to CSIRO within no more than 24 hours, including actual, suspected or apparent violations 
and breaches of this special condition, and the steps taken by the Supplier to address these; 
(d) 
describe in detail any changes to any security assurance activities and approaches that have been 
undertaken by the Supplier (and by extension, any Supplier Representatives) to ensure the security 
of the Goods and/or Services since the Commencement Date. This includes the security of the 
information and data that relate to the Goods and/or Services;  
(e) 
if relevant, undertake security testing at regular intervals as appropriate, and make available to 
CSIRO any security reports, which include, at a minimum: 
(i) 
a technical vulnerability assessment of the Supplier’s information and communications 
technology (ICT) infrastructure used in the provision of the Goods and/or Services; and 
(ii) 
security penetration testing of the Supplier’s ICT infrastructure used in the provision of the 
Goods and/or Services; 
(f) 
conduct a security assessment of the Goods and/or Services at any time during the Term at CSIRO’s 
direction. The Supplier must respond promptly in writing to any questions that CSIRO reasonably 
asks as a result of the assessment;  
(g) 
provide to CSIRO, when requested, any information that may help to inform CSIRO of the security 
risk in CSIRO’s use of the Goods and/or Services. This may include information generated as a result 
of ad-hoc security audit activities that CSIRO conducts in respect of the Agreement; 
(h) 
maintain a documented incident response plan, agreed to by CSIRO, that outlines: 
(i) 
guidelines on what constitutes a cyber security incident; 
(ii) 
the minimum level of cyber security incident response for each type of incident; 
(iii) 
the authority in managing incidents and other relevant incident response roles; 
(iv) 
the steps necessary to ensure the integrity of evidence supporting a cyber security incident; 
(v) 
the steps necessary to ensure that critical elements of the Goods and/or Services remain 
operational; and 
(vi) 
how to formally report cyber security incidents to CSIRO; and 
(i) 
if it becomes aware of any actual or suspected: 
(i) 
action taken using computer networks that result in an actual or potentially adverse effect 
on the Goods and/or Services or on CSIRO Material (Cyber Incident); or 
(ii) 
any other unauthorised access or use by a third party or misuse, damage or destruction of 
CSIRO Material or the Goods and/or Services by any person (Other Incident); 
 
must: 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
20 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(iii) 
immediately report the incident and confirm the same in writing to CSIRO within no more 
than 24 hours; and 
(iv) 
comply with any reasonable directions issued by CSIRO in connection with the Cyber 
Incident or Other Incident, including in relation to: 
(A) 
obtaining evidence about how, when and by whom the Goods and/or Services or 
CSIRO Material have or may have been compromised and providing it to CSIRO, 
and preserving and protecting that evidence for a period of up to 12 months; 
(B) 
implementing any mitigation strategies to reduce the impact of the Cyber Incident 
or Other Incident or the likelihood or impact of any future similar incident; and 
(C) 
preserving and protecting CSIRO Material (including as necessary reverting to any 
backup or alternative site or taking other action to recover data). 
1.2 
In the event that a Cyber Incident results in the disclosure or potential disclosure of CSIRO Material to the 
public, CSIRO will be entitled to recover from the Supplier its reasonable costs of investigating and 
remediating the Cyber Incident. 
 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
21 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Working with Children / Vulnerable People 
1. 
Definitions 
 
Child means any individual(s) under the age of 18 years and Children has a similar meaning.  
 
Child/Vulnerable People-Related Personnel means officers, employees, contractors, agents and 
volunteers of the Supplier involved with the Services who, as part of that involvement, may interact 
with Children or Vulnerable People. 
 
Child/Vulnerable People Safety Obligations means compliance with all State, Territory or 
Commonwealth laws relating to the employment or engagement of people who work or volunteer 
with Children or Vulnerable People in relation to the Services, including mandatory reporting and 
WWC/VP Checks.  
 
National Principles for Child Safe Organisations means the National Principles for Child Safe 
Organisations that were endorsed by the Council of Australian Governments in February 2019 
(available at: Child Safe Organisations | Australian Human Rights Commission or as otherwise 
published by the Australian Government).  
 
Vulnerable People means a child under the age of 18 years or an adult who is experiencing 
disadvantage who accesses a regulated activity or service related to the disadvantage.  
 
Working With Children/Vulnerable People Checks or WWC/VP Checks means the process in place 
pursuant to Relevant Law to screen an individual for fitness to work with Children or Vulnerable 
People, however described.  
2. 
Services Involving Children or Vulnerable People 
2.1 
If any part of the Services will involve the Supplier or its Personnel working directly with, or being 
reasonably likely to have contact with, any Children or Vulnerable People, the Supplier must: 
(a) 
comply with all Child/Vulnerable People Safety Obligations; 
(b) 
ensure that WWC/VP Checks obtained in accordance with this clause remain current and that all 
Child/Vulnerable People-Related Personnel continue to comply with all Relevant Law for the 
duration of their involvement in the Services; and 
(c) 
in relation to the Services: 
(i) 
implement the National Principles for Child Safe Organisations; 
(ii) 
ensure that all Child/Vulnerable People-Related Personnel implement the National 
Principles for Child Safe Organisations; 
(iii) 
complete and update, at least annually, a risk assessment to identify the level of 
responsibility for Children/Vulnerable People and the level of risk of harm or abuse to 
Children/Vulnerable People; 
(iv) 
put into place and update, at least annually, an appropriate risk management strategy to 
manage risks identified through the risk assessment required by this clause 2; 
(v) 
provide training and establish a compliance regime to ensure that all Child/Vulnerable 
People-Related Personnel are aware of, and comply with: 
(A) 
the National Principles for Child Safe Organisations; 
(B) 
the Supplier’s risk management strategy required by this clause; 
(C) 
Relevant Law relating to requirements for working with Children/Vulnerable 
People, including WWC/VP Checks; and 
(D) 
Relevant Law relating to mandatory reporting of suspected Child abuse or neglect, 
however described; and  
 
provide CSIRO with an annual statement of compliance with this clause, in such form as may 
be specified by CSIRO. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
22 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
2.2 
With reasonable notice to the Supplier, CSIRO may conduct a review of the Supplier’s compliance with 
this clause 2.  
2.3 
The Supplier must: 
(a) 
notify CSIRO in writing of any failure to comply with this clause 2; 
(b) 
co-operate with CSIRO in any review conducted by CSIRO of the Supplier’s implementation of the 
National Principles for Child Safe Organisations or compliance with this clause 2; and 
(c) 
promptly, and at the Supplier’s cost, take such action as is necessary to rectify, to CSIRO’s 
satisfaction, any failure to implement the National Principles for Child Safe Organisations or any 
other failure to comply with this clause 2. 
3. 
Responsibility for Subcontractors 
3.1 
If Child/Vulnerable People Safety Obligations may be relevant to a Subcontract, the Supplier must ensure 
that such Subcontract imposes the same obligations and CSIRO rights as specified in this Schedule. 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
1. 
Definitions 
 
AI System means the machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the 
input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations, or 
decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI Systems vary in their levels 
of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment; 
 
Prohibited AI System means any AI System(s) specified in a mandatory direction issued by the 
Secretary of the Department of Home Affairs under the Protective Security Policy Framework, 
prohibiting its use, as amended from time to time;  
 
Supply Chain means any Subcontractor, agent, supplier or entity: 
(a) 
in a direct or indirect business relationship (whether within Australia or internationally) with 
the Supplier; or  
(b) 
which contributes directly or indirectly to the supply of the deliverables to CSIRO,  
including entities in the network of business entities or individuals performing, providing, producing, 
handling, storing, transmitting or distributing:  
(ii) 
the AI System; or  
(iii) 
components of the AI System. 
2. 
Supplier use of AI must be approved by CSIRO 
2.1 
Where the Supplier intends to use an AI System for the provision of the Goods and/or Services, it  must: 
(a) 
notify the CSIRO prior to the provision of the Goods and/or Services with details of the proposed 
AI System technology and functionality relevant to the provision of the Goods and/or Services; and 
(b) 
obtain CSIRO’s prior written approval for such use. 
2.2 
The Supplier is fully responsible for the performance of this Agreement regardless of any use of an AI 
System at any point in the Supply Chain used to deliver the AI System. This includes where the use is 
approved by the CSIRO. 
3. 
Supplier to confirm accuracy 
3.1 
Where the Supplier uses an AI System for the provision of the Goods and/or Services, it must conduct 
quality assurance checks on the AI System outputs to ensure they are accurate and reliable. 
4. 
Supplier to keep records 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
23 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
4.1 
Where the CSIRO approves the use of an AI System, the Supplier must ensure that it retains detailed 
records of: 
(a) 
the AI System used;  
(b) 
the scope of the AI System’s use in providing the Goods and/or Services; 
(c) 
any data collected, processed and stored by the AI System; and  
(d) 
any systems that the AI System interacts with in connection with providing the Goods and/or 
Services. 
4.2 
The Supplier must promptly provide these records to the CSIRO if asked. 
5. 
Supplier not to use Prohibited AI Systems 
5.1 
The Supplier must ensure that a Prohibited AI System is not used in the provision of the Goods and/or 
Services, including that it is not: 
(a) 
used in any part of the Supply Chain used to provide the Goods and/or Services; or 
(b) 
installed on CSIRO Systems. 
5.2 
If the Supplier discovers that a Prohibited AI System has been used in contravention of clause 5.1, the 
Supplier must immediately notify the CSIRO and remove the Prohibited AI System from use, and take any 
other action reasonably directed by CSIRO. 
5.3 
The CSIRO may immediately terminate this Agreement if the Supplier does not fully comply with clauses 
5.1 and 5.2 of this Schedule.  
 

 
Contract Number - 2576  
 
24 
  
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Schedule 4. 
Terms and conditions 
1. 
Term 
1.1 
Initial term 
 
The term of this Agreement starts on the Commencement Date and continues until the End Date, unless 
terminated in accordance with clause 19 (Term). 
1.2 
Extension of Term 
 
CSIRO may, in its absolute discretion, extend this Agreement for an Option Period(s), on the same terms 
and conditions as this Agreement unless otherwise agreed by the parties in writing, by giving the Supplier 
a  Option Notice, no later than the last date set out in Item 7. 
2. 
Goods and Services 
2.1 
Supply of Goods and Services 
(a) 
The Supplier must supply the Goods, Services and/or Deliverables to CSIRO in accordance with: 
i. the requirements and Milestone Dates in Schedule 1; 
ii. all applicable Laws; 
iii. any policies and procedures specified in this Agreement, including in Item 10 or the Schedules 
(Applicable Policies); and 
iv. all relevant Australian standards and guidelines (or, if none apply, relevant international 
standards and guidelines) and, if there is an applicable industry best practice standard, in 
accordance with that standard, together with any standards specified in Item 10 or the 
Schedules (Applicable Standards); and  
v. the reasonable directions of CSIRO. 
(b) 
The Supplier must also comply with any additional policies, procedures, or standards specified by 
CSIRO from time to time,  provided that if such compliance would result in a material increase in 
the cost to the Supplier of providing the Goods and/or Services, they will only take effect if they 
are included using the variation procedure set out in clause 23.5. 
(c) 
On request by CSIRO, the Supplier must provide details of how it complies with the Applicable 
Policies and Applicable Standards, including providing evidence of any relevant certifications 
required under the Applicable Policies or Applicable Standards. 
2.2 
Standard of Services 
 
The Supplier must perform the Services: 
(a) 
to the best of the Supplier's knowledge and expertise; and 
(b) 
with a professional degree of care, skill and diligence.  
2.3 
Inspection and Acceptance of Goods, Services and Deliverables 
(a) 
CSIRO may at any time inspect the Goods, Services and/or how the Supplier is manufacturing or 
providing them to ascertain whether the Supplier is complying with the requirements of this 
Agreement. For this purpose, the Supplier must (at reasonable times and on reasonable notice) 
give CSIRO’s representatives access to the premises at which the Supplier is performing this 
Agreement, and permit CSIRO to take copies of relevant records, provided in doing so CSIRO must 
not unreasonably delay or disrupt Supplier's performance of the Agreement.  
(b) 
If at any time during the Term, or within 12 months after final provision of the Goods and/or 
Services, CSIRO is not satisfied that the Goods, Services, and/or Deliverables, or any part of them, 
do or will conform with this Agreement, CSIRO may by written notice to the Supplier (a 
Rectification Notice):  

 
Contract number 2576 
 
25 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
i. identify the Goods, Services or Deliverables that CSIRO believes have not been, or are not being, 
satisfactorily provided or completed; 
ii. indicate what action the Supplier must take to rectify them; and 
iii. specify a time and date for completion of that rectification. 
(c) 
The Supplier must rectify the Goods, Services or Deliverables as specified in any notice given under 
clause 2.3(b) at its own expense. If the Supplier fails to make such rectification to the reasonable 
satisfaction of CSIRO or within the timeframes required by CSIRO in a notice issued under 
clause 2.3(b), then without limiting the Supplier’s warranties and obligations under this 
Agreement, CSIRO may:  
i. perform or engage another contractor to perform any necessary rectification works or 
complete the relevant Services or provide the relevant Goods or Deliverables; and 
ii. recover any expense incurred under clause i2.3(c)i as a debt due to CSIRO. 
(d) 
If a Rectification Notice requires the Supplier to remove Goods or Deliverables from CSIRO’s 
premises, then unless CSIRO agrees otherwise in writing, the Supplier must remove them from 
CSIRO’s premises promptly (and in no event later than 10 Business Days from provision of CSIRO’s 
notice), and the Supplier is responsible for all costs in relation to such removal and subsequent 
redelivery. 
(e) 
The Supplier acknowledges that payment by CSIRO and/or CSIRO’s acceptance of any Deliverable 
is without prejudice to any right of CSIRO to require the Supplier to rectify any issues with that 
Deliverable if it is subsequently found not to be compliant with the requirements of this 
Agreement.  
(f) 
If Schedule 1 requires the Supplier to submit a sample of Goods for approval by CSIRO, the Supplier 
must not proceed to bulk manufacture those Goods until CSIRO has approved the sample. 
(g) 
Clauses 2.3(b)to 2.3(e) survives the expiry of this Agreement. 
3. 
Title and risk in Goods and Deliverables  
(a) 
Except as noted in 10.1(a), title in Goods and Deliverables passes to CSIRO when CSIRO pays for 
them. 
(b) 
Risk in Goods or other physical Deliverables passes to CSIRO on delivery. If Goods or Deliverables 
are required to be removed from CSIRO’s premises under a Rectification Notice, risk in those Goods 
or Deliverables reverts to the Supplier on the Removal Date. 
4. 
Supplier Representatives 
4.1 
Subcontracting  
(a) 
The Supplier must provide advance written notice to CSIRO of any Subcontractor that the Supplier 
proposes to use in the supply of the Goods and/or Services (Subcontractor Notice) and CSIRO may, 
acting reasonably, reject the proposed appointment and, if it does, CSIRO will provide its reasons 
for doing so.  
(b) 
The Supplier must not Subcontract any part of its obligations under this Agreement to a 
Subcontractor that:  
i. has not been approved by CSIRO; 
ii. has been named by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency as not complying with the 
Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) (WGE Act), regardless whether CSIRO purports to 
approve such subcontracting; or 
iii. is an Inappropriate Person. 
(c) 
The Supplier must remain the sole point of contact for CSIRO for all Subcontracted obligations. 
Entering into, terminating, rescinding or otherwise ending a Subcontract, does not relieve the 
Supplier from liability for the performance of any of its obligations under this Agreement. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
26 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(d) 
In relation to the provision of the Goods and/or Services, the Supplier: 
i. must, on request by CSIRO, provide to CSIRO the names of any of the Supplier's Subcontractors; 
ii. agrees that CSIRO may disclose publicly the names of any of the Supplier's Subcontractors; and 
iii. must ensure that any Subcontractor agrees that CSIRO may disclose the Subcontractor's name 
publicly. 
4.2 
Removal or replacement of Representatives  
(a) 
CSIRO may at any time, by notice, require the Supplier to remove any of its Representatives from 
work in respect of this Agreement if in CSIRO’s reasonable opinion they: 
i. do not meet the standards or requirements specified in clause 5.1(e), or  
ii. have otherwise failed to act in compliance with this Agreement. 
(b) 
On receiving notice under clause 4.2(a), the Supplier must remove the Representative from work 
in respect of this Agreement and will not be entitled to make a Claim for payment for any Losses 
arising out of or in relation to the removal of the Representative. 
(c) 
Within 5 Business Days of receiving notice from CSIRO to remove any of its Representatives under 
clause 4.2(a), the Supplier must find one or more replacement(s) of appropriate expertise. 
(d) 
If the Supplier is unable to provide an acceptable replacement Representative(s) within the 
foregoing period, CSIRO may immediately terminate this Agreement. 
5. 
Supplier warranties 
5.1 
Goods and Services warranties 
 
The Supplier warrants (without limiting any warranties applied by law) that: 
(a) 
all Deliverables, and any other information, reports or other material given to CSIRO under this 
Agreement will be correct, complete and not misleading; 
(b) 
all Goods, and any other Deliverables, provided under this Agreement will be of merchantable 
quality and free from defects; 
(c) 
the Goods and/or Services will be fit for the purposes for which they are provided;  
(d) 
all Services provided will be provided in a manner that is compliant with any relevant Australian 
standard, industry standard or applicable international organisation standard (which ever standard 
is highest) and with all applicable Laws; and 
(e) 
it and its Representatives: 
i. have the necessary and appropriate qualifications, experience, skill, knowledge, expertise and 
competence to perform the Services; and 
ii. (if applicable) will be authorised or hold such licences, permits, authorisations, registrations 
and affiliations as are required by Law, applicable professional bodies or this Agreement in 
order to perform the Services. 
5.2 
General warranties 
 
The Supplier warrants that: 
(a) 
when title to a Deliverable transfers to CSIRO pursuant to clause 3(a), CSIRO will receive good and 
unencumbered title to that Deliverable; 
(b) 
it has the necessary rights to vest the IPR and grant the licences as provided for in clause 10 and 
that any use of the Background IP, Third Party IP and Contract Material by CSIRO in accordance 
with the terms of this Agreement will not infringe any person’s IPR, rights in respect of confidential 
information or moral rights (provided that, in respect of patent rights, the Supplier will not be in 
breach of this warranty if it has untaken all reasonable steps, including searches, to ascertain if 
there is an infringement of patent rights); 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
27 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(c) 
the medium on which any copy of a Deliverable is furnished to CSIRO will, under normal use, be 
free from defects in materials, design and workmanship and Harmful Code; 
(d) 
it will not, nor will it suffer or permit any third party under its direction or control to, negligently 
introduce into CSIRO’s systems any Harmful Code;  
(e) 
if any Harmful Code is introduced into CSIRO’s systems in connection with the Supplier’s 
performance of this Agreement, it will promptly report that introduction to CSIRO; 
(f) 
if the Supplier is a trustee, it enters this Agreement personally and in its capacity as trustee and 
has full power and authority under the relevant trust instrument(s) to do so; [ 
(g) 
neither it nor any of its Representatives have an actual or perceived conflict of interests, or 
anticipate such a conflict, relevant to the performance of this Agreement (other than as has been 
disclosed to, and approved in writing by, CSIRO prior to entry into this Agreement);  
(h) 
if the Supplier or its Representatives become aware of an actual or perceived conflict of interests, 
or anticipate such a conflict during the Term of this Agreement, the Supplier will immediately notify 
CSIRO of the details of such conflict and the proposed methods of mitigating such conflict; and  
(i) 
any signatory to this Agreement has the authority to bind the Supplier to this Agreement, including 
through the use of an electronic signature. 
5.3 
Continuing obligation 
 
The warranties in clauses 5.1 and 5.2 are given on a continuing basis throughout the Term and the Supplier 
must notify CSIRO in writing of anything that happens or may happen that may affect the ongoing validity 
of any of the warranties in this Agreement or the Supplier’s ability to perform its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
6. 
Invoicing procedure 
6.1 
Timing of invoicing  
 
The Supplier must issue invoices to CSIRO detailing the applicable Charges, Fees and Expenses for the 
relevant Goods and/or Services on the dates or at the frequencies specified in Schedule 2, and in 
accordance with the invoice requirements in clause 6.2.  
6.2 
Invoice content 
 
To be correctly rendered, Invoices must be a Tax Invoice in a form acceptable to CSIRO, addressed to 
CSIRO at the address or via the method specified in the Purchase Order, or any substitute method notified 
in writing to the Supplier from time to time and include:  
(a) 
the name, number and date of this Agreement; 
(b) 
the invoice number, purchase order/work order number, CSIRO Contract Administrator’s name 
and Supplier’s ABN; 
(c) 
details of the work completed and the Charges and/or Fees (exclusive and inclusive of GST), and 
substantiation of Expenses (if any); and 
(d) 
payment method details. 
7. 
Payment 
7.1 
Payment of invoices 
(a) 
CSIRO will pay the Supplier the applicable Charges, Fees and Expenses within 20 days of receipt of 
a Tax Invoice if:  
i. it is correctly rendered in accordance with clause 6.2; and 
ii. the CSIRO Contract Administrator has assessed the Supplier’s performance and is satisfied that 
the Goods in the invoice have been supplied and/or the Services in the invoice have been 
performed in accordance with this Agreement. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
28 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(b) 
The CSIRO Contract Administrator’s assessment and any payment of an invoice does not constitute 
Acceptance of the relevant Goods, Services or other Deliverables. 
(c) 
The Charges, Fees and Expenses payable by CSIRO under this Agreement:  
i. cover all internal and third party costs that may be incurred by the Supplier in relation to the 
provision of the Goods and/or Services (including Subcontractor costs), including all Taxes, 
charges, duties and disbursements; and 
ii. will not exceed the Total Contract Price. 
7.2 
Cost changes at Supplier’s risk 
 
The Supplier is not entitled to any payment for any additional amounts based on changes in the cost of 
labour, materials or other resourcing costs, exchange rate fluctuations or any other changes to the costs 
incurred by the Supplier in supplying the Goods and/or Services. 
7.3 
Disputed invoice 
 
CSIRO may withhold payment of any invoiced amount that it disputes until that dispute is resolved in 
accordance with this Agreement. 
7.4 
Taxes 
 
Unless expressly specified otherwise: 
(a) 
all amounts payable, consideration provided or monetary limits in this Agreement are inclusive of 
any Taxes; and 
(b) 
the Supplier must not charge CSIRO any additional amount in relation to any Tax. 
7.5 
Withholding  
 
If CSIRO is required by Law to deduct, or to withhold, from any payment to be made to the Supplier an 
amount on account of any Tax or superannuation, or to meet any other statutory requirement, then CSIRO 
will: 
(a) 
make the required deduction or withholding; 
(b) 
pay the appropriate Government Agency the full amount of that deduction or withholding in 
accordance with the relevant Law; 
(c) 
deliver to the Supplier a copy of the receipt for that payment; and 
(d) 
pay the balance of the amount required to be paid to the Supplier under this Agreement (if any) 
and, in doing so, CSIRO will have fulfilled its payment obligations to the Supplier. 
7.6 
Set-off 
(a) 
The amount of any liability owed by the Supplier to CSIRO under or in relation to this Agreement 
or any other Claim may be deducted from or set off against any amount payable by CSIRO to the 
Supplier under this Agreement. Any deduction or set-off will not prevent CSIRO from recovering 
the balance of the liability owed from the Supplier. 
(b) 
CSIRO will give the Supplier notice of all deductions or set-offs under clause 7.6(a) when paying the 
affected invoice. 
8. 
GST 
8.1 
Interpretation 
 
In this clause 8, a word or expression defined in the GST Law has the meaning given to that term in the 
GST Law. 
8.2 
GST warranty 
 
The Supplier warrants that, unless otherwise advised to CSIRO in writing, it is registered for GST and will 
immediately advise CSIRO if it ceases to be registered for GST. 
8.3 
Prices GST inclusive 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
29 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
Unless stated otherwise, the Total Contract Price, Charges, Fees and Expenses are inclusive of GST. 
8.4 
GST gross up 
 
If a party (GST Supplier) makes a supply under or in relation to this Agreement in respect of which GST is 
payable, the recipient of the supply (Recipient) must pay to the GST Supplier an additional amount equal 
to the GST payable on the supply (GST Amount).  
8.5 
Reimbursements 
 
If a party must reimburse or indemnify another party for a Loss, the amount to be reimbursed or 
indemnified is first reduced by the amount of any input tax credit to which the other party is entitled for 
the Loss and then increased in accordance with clause 8.4. 
8.6 
Exclusion of GST from calculations 
 
If a payment is calculated by reference to or as a specified percentage of another amount or revenue 
stream, that payment will be calculated by reference to or as a specified percentage of the amount or 
revenue stream exclusive of GST. 
8.7 
GST and Expenses 
 
The Supplier must not charge CSIRO any amount for an Expense that is in excess of: 
(a) 
the net amount incurred by the Supplier in respect of the Expense exclusive of any GST (the GST 
Exclusive Expense); plus 
(b) 
an amount equal to the Supplier’s GST liability on the GST Exclusive Expense if and to the extent 
that the reimbursement is consideration for a taxable supply by the Supplier to CSIRO. 
8.8 
Adjustment event 
 
If and to the extent an adjustment event arises in respect of a supply made by the Supplier to CSIRO under 
this Agreement, then: 
(a) 
if the Supplier’s corrected GST amount is less than the previously attributed GST amount, the 
Supplier must refund the difference to CSIRO; and 
(b) 
if the Supplier’s corrected GST amount is greater than the previously attributed GST amount, CSIRO 
will pay the difference to the Supplier, 
(c) 
and the Supplier must issue an adjustment note to CSIRO. 
8.9 
Tax Invoice 
 
A party need not make a payment for a taxable supply made under or in relation to this Agreement until 
it receives a Tax Invoice for the supply to which the payment relates, and (if applicable) the other 
requirements of clause 7.1(a) have been met. 
9. 
Force Majeure Events 
(a) 
A party is not liable for any delay or failure to perform its obligations under this Agreement if: 
i. the delay or failure is caused by a Force Majeure Event; and 
ii. the non-performing party complies with clause 9(b). 
(b) 
The non-performing party must: 
i. give written notice to the other party of the Force Majeure Event as soon as it becomes aware 
of it; and 
ii. use reasonable endeavours to remedy the failure or delay to the extent possible, mitigate the 
impact of the failure or delay, and restart performance of its obligations as soon as possible. 
10. 
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) 
10.1 Ownership, licensing and provision of Contract Material and IPR and Confidential information 
embodied in Contract Material 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
30 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(a) 
Ownership of Contract Material, and IPR in Contract Material, is assigned to, and will vest in, CSIRO 
on the creation of the Contract Material. The Supplier must promptly sign any documents and 
undertake any further steps required to give effect to, or to complete, that assignment. 
(b) 
The Supplier grants to, or will procure for, CSIRO, at no cost, a perpetual, irrevocable, non-
exclusive, world-wide, fee and royalty-free licence (including the right to sublicense) of any 
Confidential Information, including any technical information and know-how, that is embodied in 
the Contract Material as required to enable the full and unrestricted use of the Contract Material 
by CSIRO. 
(c) 
CSIRO grants to the Supplier, at no cost, a fee and royalty-free, revocable, non-exclusive, limited 
licence (including the right to sublicense to Subcontractors that are permitted under clause 4.1) to 
use, reproduce, adapt, modify, communicate to the public, but not commercially exploit, the 
Contract Material and any associated IPR during the Term, solely for the purpose of performing its 
obligations under this Agreement.  
(d) 
If the Supplier wishes to use any Contract Material and associated IPR other than for the purpose 
of performing its obligations under this Agreement, or to sublicense it to any party other than a 
Subcontractor that is permitted under clause 4.1, it may only do so with express prior written 
permission from CSIRO and subject to any directions or restrictions imposed by CSIRO. 
10.2 Background IP licence 
 
The Supplier retains ownership of its Background IP, but grants to, or will procure for, CSIRO, at no cost, 
a perpetual, irrevocable, non-exclusive, world-wide, fee and royalty-free licence (including the right to 
sublicense) to use, reproduce, adapt, modify, communicate to the public and commercially exploit all 
Background IP, and any material in which it is embodied, that is supplied to CSIRO pursuant to this 
Agreement (including in any Goods or other Deliverables, or required for the provision of Services), for 
the purpose of receiving the full benefit of the Goods and Services, including making unrestricted use of 
the Contract Material and any associated IPR. 
10.3 Rights to Third Party IP  
 
The Supplier must: 
(a) 
ensure that, except to the extent otherwise provided in Item Error! Reference source not found., 
any Third Party IP, and any material in which it is embodied, that is supplied to CSIRO pursuant to 
this Agreement (including in any Goods or other Deliverables, or required for the provision of 
Services) is supplied on terms and conditions that give CSIRO the right to use, reproduce, adapt, 
modify and communicate to the public and commercially exploit (including the right to sublicense) 
all of that Third Party IP for the purpose of receiving the full and unrestricted benefit of the Goods 
and/or Services, including making unrestricted use of the Contract Material and any associated IPR; 
or 
(b) 
obtain CSIRO’s prior written consent to any Third Party IP licence terms that do not meet the 
requirements of clause 10.3(a) and that are not included in Item Error! Reference source not 
found.. 
10.4 Continued use of Background IP, Third Party IP and Contract Material 
 
If someone Claims, or CSIRO reasonably believes that someone is likely to Claim, that CSIRO’s use of all or 
part of the Background IP, Third Party IP or Contract Material (or associated IPR) infringes their IPR, the 
Supplier must, in addition to the indemnity under clause 18.1 and to any other rights that CSIRO may have 
against it (other than in circumstances caused by the conduct of CSIRO or the inclusion of CSIRO Material 
in the Contract Material), promptly, at the Supplier’s cost: 
(a) 
use its best efforts to secure the rights for CSIRO to continue to use the affected Background IP, 
Third Party IP or Contract Material (or IPR) free of any Claim for infringement; or 
(b) 
replace or modify the affected Background IP, Third Party IP or Contract Material (or IPR) so that 
the Background IP, Third Party IP or Contract Material (or IPR), or the use of them, does not infringe 
the IPR of any other person without any degradation of the performance or quality of the affected 
Background IP, Third Party IP and Contract Material (or IPR). 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
31 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
11. 
Provision, use and licensing of CSIRO Material and CSIRO IP 
11.1 Provision of CSIRO Material 
 
CSIRO will provide the CSIRO Material required by, and in accordance with Schedule 1. 
11.2 Licence of CSIRO IP 
(a) 
Subject to clause 11.2(b) and any conditions or limitations of third parties notified in writing by 
CSIRO to the Supplier, CSIRO grants the Supplier, at no cost, a fee and royalty-free, non-exclusive 
licence (including the right to sublicense to Subcontractors that are permitted under clause 4.1) to 
use, reproduce, adapt, modify and communicate to the public, but not commercially exploit, any 
CSIRO IP during the Term, solely for the purpose of performing its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Supplier must not use the CSIRO’s name, trademarks or logos without CSIRO’s prior written 
consent. 
11.3 Conditions of use 
 
The Supplier must, at all times, ensure that the CSIRO Material:  
(a) 
is used or transmitted in a manner that is consistent with the Supplier’s obligations under this 
Agreement and at Law;  
(b) 
except if and to the extent the agreed use of the CSIRO Materials dictates otherwise, is: 
i. reasonably protected against loss, corruption, unauthorised access, use, modification, 
disclosure or other misuse;  
ii. kept safe and in its original state (fair wear and tear excepted);  
iii. not transferred outside of Australia without the prior written consent of CSIRO; and 
iv. encrypted to ensure confidentiality and integrity of any CSIRO Material that is transmitted 
across any public network infrastructure. 
11.4 Dealing with CSIRO Material on termination or expiry 
(a) 
Subject to clause 11.4(b), on expiry or termination of this Agreement, or on written request from 
CSIRO, the Supplier must: 
i. immediately return to CSIRO all CSIRO Material; 
ii. if requested by CSIRO, destroy all CSIRO Material comprising of documentation (including all 
archival copies) in its custody or control; and  
iii. pay the cost of repair or replacement (at CSIRO’s option) of any CSIRO Material comprising 
equipment that has been degraded or destroyed beyond fair wear and tear (when this was not 
the intended use). 
(b) 
The obligation in clause 11.4(a) does not prevent the Supplier from retaining and using one copy 
of CSIRO Material after the Term: 
i. solely for the purposes of complying with its record keeping, reporting and regulatory 
obligations; or 
ii. that is stored in electronic back-up tapes or records maintained in the ordinary course of the 
Supplier’s business that are not readily capable of search or destruction, 
provided that the CSIRO Material and CSIRO IP is always treated as confidential to CSIRO. 
12. 
Confidential Information  
(a) 
Each party must, and must take reasonable steps to ensure that its Representatives do, protect the 
Confidential Information of the other party and not make public, disclose or use any Confidential 
Information of the other party except in accordance with this Agreement, if required to do so by 
Law or a stock exchange, or as strictly required in relation to legal proceedings relating to this 
Agreement. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
32 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(b) 
CSIRO may disclose the Supplier’s Confidential Information: 
i. to the responsible Minister or any Agency having authority over CSIRO;  
ii. for public accountability reasons including in response to a request by a House or Committee 
of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia; and 
iii. to the extent permitted by clause 10.1(b). 
(c) 
The Supplier may disclose CSIRO’s Confidential Information as permitted by clause 11.2. 
(d) 
If the Supplier becomes aware of any infringement or possible or alleged infringement of its 
obligations under this clause 12, or the corresponding obligations of any of its Representatives, the 
Supplier must: 
i. notify CSIRO in writing immediately; and 
ii. comply with any reasonable directions from CSIRO with respect to remedying that 
infringement. 
13. 
Security 
13.1 Access to CSIRO Premises 
(a) 
To the extent the Supplier’s performance of this Agreement requires attendance at any CSIRO 
premises (CSIRO Premises), CSIRO grants the Supplier a non-exclusive, temporary and revocable 
licence to enter such CSIRO Premises, at times to be agreed with CSIRO, for the sole purpose of 
performing this Agreement. 
(b) 
Access to CSIRO Premises is restricted to only those Supplier Representatives who need to be on 
the CSIRO Premises for the purpose of the Supplier performing the Agreement.   
(c) 
The Supplier must ensure that while on CSIRO Premises the Supplier’s Representatives comply with 
the policies and procedures notified by CSIRO or displayed at the CSIRO Premises, and with all 
lawful and reasonable directions as may be given by CSIRO from time to time in relation to: 
i. sign-in and visitor badge requirements; 
ii. which areas within the CSIRO Premises they are permitted to enter; 
iii. health and safety of personnel, property and the environment; 
iv. use of any vehicles, equipment, materials or facilities; and 
v. security of the CSIRO Premises.  
(d) 
The Supplier acknowledges that in visiting the CSIRO Premises, its Representatives may interact 
with staff of CSIRO or other parties, and/or observe or receive information from those parties. The 
Supplier must ensure its Representatives: 
i. do not to interfere with the activities of any other party; and 
ii. maintain the confidentiality of information of any other party which they may observe or 
receive. 
13.2 Access to CSIRO Systems 
(a) 
To the extent the Supplier’s performance of this Agreement requires access to any of CSIRO’s IT 
systems or equipment (CSIRO Systems), or any software provided by Supplier will interface with 
CSIRO Systems, or if Supplier’s Representatives obtain access to CSIRO’s Systems for any reason, 
the Supplier must and must ensure its Representatives comply with this clause. 
(b) 
All users of CSIRO Systems are required to comply with CSIRO’s IT policies, which may be updated 
by CSIRO from time to time as reasonably required, including changes required by law.  
(c) 
If the Supplier and/or any Supplier Representative is provided with an account to access CSIRO 
Systems, the Supplier must ensure the account details and passwords are securely maintained and 
used only for the purposes provided, by the individuals to whom they are issued.  

 
Contract number 2576 
 
33 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(d) 
Without limiting sub-clause (b), the Supplier must not, and must ensure that any software it 
provides does not: 
i. allow unauthorised persons to have access to CSIRO Systems or any data processed or stored 
on CSIRO Systems; 
ii. attempt to access information of CSIRO or any third party except to the extent necessary for 
performance of this Agreement; 
iii. upload any material to the CSIRO Systems unless this is necessary for the performance of this 
Agreement and the Supplier has the requisite rights or licences to do so;  
iv. upload to, store on, or transmit from the CSIRO Systems any unlawful or inappropriate material, 
such as material that is indecent, offensive, defamatory, discriminatory or extremist, or that is 
in breach of any laws including any laws governing copyright works or other IP rights; 
v. transmit, transfer or export any data which may be subject to any laws, regulations or 
prohibition notices which prohibit the export, re-export, transfer or release of that data to 
sanctioned countries, territories, regimes, individuals or entities unless Supplier has obtained 
the necessary export permit or official clearance to do so; 
vi. introduce any malicious computer programs or code (including computer viruses, trojan horses 
or worms) into the CSIRO Systems that may jeopardise the integrity of the CSIRO Systems or 
data stored on them; 
vii. use CSIRO Systems in any way that may impair their availability or accessibility; or 
viii. attempt to override any security or protective measures embedded in the CSIRO Systems.  
13.3 Notification and co-operation 
(a) 
The Supplier must immediately notify CSIRO if it knows or reasonably suspects that any breach of 
this clause 13 has occurred, and must co-operate promptly with any steps taken or directions given 
by CSIRO to investigate and/or remediate the issue.    
(b) 
Where CSIRO is of the opinion that the Supplier or its Representatives may have breached this 
clause 13, CSIRO reserves the right to: 
i. revoke or suspend Supplier’s access to CSIRO Premises and/or the CSIRO Systems; and 
ii. where appropriate, notify such breach or suspected breach to a relevant government authority 
with responsibility for administering laws, regulations or prohibitions which may have been 
broken. 
13.4 Security checks 
(a) 
The Supplier must, and must ensure that any Representative of the Supplier providing the Goods 
and/or Services, undergoes relevant security checks, clearances or authorisations as required by 
Law or as otherwise specified by CSIRO in relation to performing this Agreement. 
(b) 
All costs associated with obtaining security clearances, authorisations, reviews or audits or security 
performance monitoring must be borne by the Supplier, unless otherwise agreed in writing by 
CSIRO. 
13.5 Termination 
 
If the Supplier breaches this clause 13, CSIRO may immediately terminate this Agreement. 
14. 
Work Health and Safety 
(a) 
The Supplier must comply with, and must ensure that each of its Representatives complies with, 
the applicable WHS Laws when supplying the Goods and/or Services, including the obligation to 
consult, co-operate and co-ordinate activities with all persons who have a work, health and safety 
duty in relation to the same matter.   

 
Contract number 2576 
 
34 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(b) 
A Supplier that provides Plant (as defined in the WHS Act) to CSIRO must ensure that it complies 
with section 25 of the WHS Act and any applicable WHS Regulations, including regulations 61 and 
198. 
(c) 
The Supplier, by Subcontracting any of the work under this Agreement, will not be relieved of its 
obligations to consult in relation to work, health and safety matters in accordance with the WHS 
Laws and shall be responsible for all acts and omissions of its Subcontractors. 
(d) 
In order to enable CSIRO to comply with its obligations under the WHS Laws, the Supplier must, 
within 10 Business Days of a request by CSIRO, provide any information and/or documentation 
relating to work, health and safety matters, including in relation to its Subcontractors, to CSIRO. 
(e) 
If a Notifiable Incident (as defined in sections 35-37 of the WHS Act) occurs in connection with work 
carried out under this Agreement:  
i. on Commonwealth premises;  
ii. that involves Commonwealth personnel; or  
iii. that involves a Commonwealth specified system of work,  
the Supplier must promptly, and in any case within no more than 24 hours: 
iv. report the incident to CSIRO; 
v. provide to CSIRO copies of any notices or other documentation provided to, or issued by, the 
relevant Commonwealth, State or Territory regulator in relation to the Notifiable Incident;  
vi. provide to CSIRO such other information as may be required by CSIRO to facilitate the 
notification to or investigation by the Commonwealth regulator of the Notifiable Incident in 
accordance with the WHS Laws; and  
vii. provide other reasonable assistance required by CSIRO to undertake mandatory incident 
reporting. 
(f) 
Except to the extent inconsistent with the express requirements of this Agreement, CSIRO may 
direct the Supplier to take specified measures that CSIRO considers reasonably necessary to 
comply with applicable legislation relating to work health and safety, including the WHS Laws, in 
relation to the provision of the Goods and/or Services. The Supplier must comply with the direction 
unless the Supplier demonstrates, to the reasonable satisfaction of CSIRO, that it is already 
complying with the WHS Laws in relation to the matter to which the direction relates or that the 
direction goes beyond what is reasonably necessary to achieve compliance with the WHS Laws. 
(g) 
The Supplier must ensure that all of its Subcontracts contain equivalent provisions to those set out 
in this clause 14. 
15. 
Commonwealth requirements 
15.1 Anti-Corruption 
 
The Supplier: 
(a) 
acknowledges that it, and its Representatives, are each a ‘contracted service provider’ for the 
purposes of the National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022 (Cth) (NACC Act); and 
(b) 
must comply with any reasonable request, policy or direction issued by CSIRO and otherwise 
cooperate with CSIRO in relation to any action taken by CSIRO required or authorised by the NACC 
Act.  
15.2 Privacy 
 
If the Supplier deals with Personal Information under or in relation to this Agreement, the Supplier must: 
(a) 
only use that Personal Information for the purposes of performing its obligations under this 
Agreement; 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
35 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(b) 
not do any act or engage in any practice that would breach an Australian Privacy Principle (as 
defined in the Privacy Act) if done or engaged in by CSIRO and must not do or omit to do anything 
that causes CSIRO to be in breach of an Australian Privacy Principle;  
(c) 
ensure that any Subcontract entered into for the purpose of fulfilling the Supplier’s obligations 
under this Agreement contains provisions to ensure that the Subcontractor has the same 
awareness and obligations as the Supplier has under clauses 15.2 and 15.3;  
(d) 
if the Supplier becomes aware of any infringement or possible or alleged infringement of its 
obligations under clause 15.2 or 15.3, or the corresponding obligations of any of its 
Representatives, the Supplier must notify CSIRO in writing immediately and comply with any 
reasonable directions from CSIRO with respect to remedying that infringement; and 
(e) 
only store and use Personal Information on Australian-based servers. 
15.3 Eligible Data Breach 
(a) 
If the Supplier becomes aware that there are reasonable grounds to suspect that there may have 
been an Eligible Data Breach (as defined in the Privacy Act) in relation to any Personal Information 
obtained by the Supplier as a result of this Agreement or during the course of providing the Goods 
and/or Services, the Supplier must: 
i. notify CSIRO in writing as soon as possible, which must be no later than within three (3) days 
of becoming aware; and 
ii. unless otherwise directed by CSIRO, carry out an assessment in accordance with the 
requirements of the Privacy Act.  
(b) 
If the Supplier is aware that there are reasonable grounds to believe there has been, or if CSIRO 
notifies the Supplier that there has been, an Eligible Data Breach in relation to any Personal 
Information obtained as a result of this Agreement or during the course of providing the Goods 
and/or Services, the Supplier must:  
i. take all reasonable action to mitigate the risk of the Eligible Data Breach causing serious harm 
to any of the individuals to whom it relates;  
ii. unless otherwise directed by CSIRO, take all other action necessary to comply with the 
requirements of the Privacy Act; and  
iii. take any other action reasonably directed by CSIRO. 
(c) 
In the event of an Eligible Data Breach by the Supplier that potentially or actually results in public 
disclosure, of Personal Information, CSIRO will be entitled to recover from the Supplier its 
reasonable costs of investigating the Eligible Data Breach. 
15.4 Access to Supplier’s premises, records and information 
(a) 
The Supplier must keep, maintain and audit adequate accounts, books and records, in sufficient 
detail to enable the amounts payable by CSIRO under this Agreement to be determined and 
verified. 
(b) 
The Supplier and its Representatives must grant CSIRO, its nominees and the Auditor-General 
access at reasonable times and on reasonable notice (except if there is a suspected breach of this 
Agreement, in which case no notice is required) to the Supplier’s and its Representatives’ premises 
and data, records, accounts and other material relevant to the performance of this Agreement, 
including in connection with a request made under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth), 
however and wherever stored or located, in the Supplier’s or its Representatives’ custody, 
possession or control, for inspection and copying.  
(c) 
The Supplier must also provide CSIRO or its nominee relevant information (including Personal 
Information) relating to the Supplier and its Representatives for the purposes of preventing, 
detecting, investigating or dealing with a fraud or security incident relating to this Agreement.  
When providing Personal Information under this clause, the Supplier warrants it will have obtained 
the consent of or provided reasonable notification to the person in accordance with the Privacy 
Act. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
36 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
15.5 WGE Act  
 
If the Supplier is a ‘relevant employer’ for the purposes of the WGE Act, it must:   
(a) 
comply with its obligations under the WGE Act;  
(b) 
promptly notify CSIRO if it becomes non-compliant with the WGE Act or ceases to be a ‘relevant 
employer’ during the Term; and 
(c) 
provide CSIRO an updated letter of compliance with the WGE Act on each occasion it is obtained 
from the issuing authority.  
15.6 Engagement of Illegal Workers prohibited 
(a) 
The Supplier must ensure that each person engaged by the Supplier would not, in doing the work 
for which they are engaged, be an Illegal Worker. 
(b) 
The Supplier must make compliance by any Subcontractors with the provisions of this clause a 
condition of any Subcontract. 
(c) 
The Supplier must remove, or cause to be removed, any Illegal Worker from any involvement in 
the provision of the Goods and/or Services. 
15.7 Regulatory change 
 
If, and to the extent that, during the Term, any Laws, regulations or Commonwealth policies that govern 
any aspect of this Agreement change, so as to make any aspect of this transaction unlawful or non-
compliant, then the parties agree to modify this Agreement (including by executing a variation) to the 
extent reasonably necessary to accommodate the applicable legal, regulatory or policy change. 
15.8 Fraud Control 
(a) 
The Supplier must, and must ensure that its Representatives, take all reasonable steps to prevent 
and detect fraud in relation to this Agreement.  The Supplier acknowledges that fraud on the part 
of Supplier or its Representatives in relation to this Agreement constitutes a breach of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Supplier must notify CSIRO in writing immediately if it knows or has reason to suspect that any 
fraud has occurred or is occurring or is likely to occur in relation to this Agreement, including by 
the Supplier or its Representatives. 
(c) 
If an investigation finds that the Supplier or its Representatives have committed fraud or failed to 
take reasonable steps to detect or prevent fraud in relation to this Agreement, then without 
prejudice to any other available remedy, Supplier must reimburse or compensate CSIRO for the 
cost of such investigation.  
15.9 Inappropriate Persons 
(a) 
Inappropriate Person means any person or organisation that is listed on one or more of the 
following lists: 
i. ‘Regulation 8 Consolidated List’ maintained by the Australian Government Department of 
Foreign Affairs and Trade (https://www.dfat.gov.au/international-
relations/security/sanctions/consolidated-list); and  
ii. ‘List 
of 
Terrorist 
Organisations’ 
maintained 
by 
the 
Australian 
government 
(https://www.nationalsecurity.gov.au/what-australia-is-doing/terrorist-organisations/listed-
terrorist-organisations); and  
iii. listed on the ‘World Bank’s Listing of Ineligible Firms and Individuals’ posted 
at: https://www.worldbank.org/en/projects-operations/procurement/debarred-firms.  
(b) 
The Supplier represents and warrants, on the Commencement Date and on the dates of execution 
of any variation, that it is not and none of its Representatives are:  
i. listed as an Inappropriate Person; 
ii. a member of an entity that is an Inappropriate Person; or  

 
Contract number 2576 
 
37 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
iii. providing direct or indirect support, resources or assets (including any grant monies) to any 
Inappropriate Person.  
15.10 Modern Slavery 
(a) 
In this clause 15.10: 
i. Modern Slavery has the meaning given to that term in the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth); and 
ii. Modern Slavery Laws means any law, statute or regulation that: 
(A) 
prohibits Modern Slavery (including exploitation of a worker, human trafficking, 
slavery, servitude, forced labour, debt bondage or deceptive recruiting for labour or 
services, or similar types of conduct) and is applicable or otherwise in force in the 
jurisdiction in which CSIRO or the Supplier is registered or conducts business or in 
which activities relevant to this Agreement are to be performed; or  
(B) 
requires the Supplier to issue disclosures to the public and/or any Agency, connected 
with Modern Slavery in its operations and supply chains.  
(b) 
The Supplier must ensure that:  
i. it takes reasonable steps to identify, assess and address risks of Modern Slavery practices in the 
operations and supply chains used in the performance of this Agreement; 
ii. in performing its obligations in connection with this Agreement, it does, and it ensures that its 
Representatives do: 
(A) 
not engage in any conduct or omission that may contravene any Modern Slavery 
Laws; 
(B) 
comply with any Commonwealth policy relating to Modern Slavery; and 
(C) 
provide all assistance required by the Commonwealth to fulfil its obligations, 
including reporting obligations, under the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth); and  
iii. if at any time it becomes aware of Modern Slavery practices in the operations and supply chains 
used in the performance of this Agreement, as soon as reasonably practicable, it takes all 
reasonable action to address or remove these practices, including when relevant by addressing 
any practices of other entities in its supply chains. 
(c) 
The Supplier represents and warrants to CSIRO that: 
i. neither the Supplier nor its Representatives: 
(A) 
have been convicted of any offence involving Modern Slavery; and 
(B) 
having made reasonable enquiries, to the best of its knowledge, have been or are 
the subject of any investigation, inquiry or enforcement proceedings by any 
governmental, administrative or regulatory body regarding any offence or alleged 
offence of any Modern Slavery Laws; and 
ii. it conducts its business in a manner that is compliant with Modern Slavery Laws.  
(d) 
The Supplier must promptly notify CSIRO in writing as soon as it becomes aware of a potential, 
suspected or actual breach by it or any of its Representatives of any Modern Slavery Laws in 
connection with this Agreement.  
(e) 
The Supplier must cooperate in good faith with CSIRO in investigating the circumstances relevant 
to any potential, suspected or actual breach of any Modern Slavery Laws. 
15.11 Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct 
(a) 
For the purposes of this clause, “Code” means the ‘Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct’ 
currently published by the Commonwealth Department of Finance at 
https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonwealth-supplier-code-
conduct/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct, as updated and/or relocated from time to time. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
38 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(b) 
The Supplier must comply with, and ensure that its Representatives and Subcontractors, comply 
with the Code in connection with the performance of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Supplier must immediately notify CSIRO on becoming aware of any breach of clause 15.11(b). 
The notice must include a summary of the breach, the date that the breach occurred, and details 
of the personnel involved. 
(d) 
A failure by the Supplier to comply with its obligations under any part of this clause will be a 
material breach of this Agreement. 
(e) 
The Supplier agrees that CSIRO or any other Commonwealth agency may take into account the 
Supplier’s compliance with the Code in any future approach to market or procurement process. 
15.12 Criminal Code 
(a) 
The Supplier acknowledges that the giving of false or misleading information to the 
Commonwealth is a serious offence under section 137.1 of the schedule to the Criminal Code Act 
1995 (Cth). 
(b) 
The Supplier will ensure that any Subcontractor engaged in connection with this Agreement is 
aware of the information contained in this clause. 
16. 
Contract management  
16.1 Communications 
 
The CSIRO Contract Administrator and the Supplier Contract Manager (or their nominees) will represent 
the parties for the day to day purposes of this Agreement.  
16.2 Notification 
 
If, in the provision of the Goods or performance of the Services, the Supplier becomes aware of something 
that may affect the capacity of CSIRO to perform its statutory functions, the Supplier must notify CSIRO in 
writing as soon as possible.  
17. 
Insurance 
17.1 General 
 
The Supplier must: 
(a) 
effect and maintain the insurances specified in the Insurance Requirements for the period specified 
in the Insurance Requirements; 
(b) 
not reduce any insurance policy required by this Agreement without the written consent of CSIRO; 
and 
(c) 
give evidence to CSIRO of the insurances, and their currency, in the form of certificates of currency 
compliant with this Agreement, on each occasion that such insurances are renewed, and at other 
times on CSIRO’s request. 
18. 
Indemnity and liability 
18.1 Indemnity  
(a) 
The Supplier indemnifies CSIRO and its Representatives for all Losses in relation to: 
i. the Supplier's and its Representatives’ negligent, unlawful or wilful acts or omissions; and 
ii. any breach or default of the Supplier’s or its Representatives’ obligations or warranties under 
this Agreement. 
(b) 
The indemnity in clause 18.1(a) will not in any way reduce or restrict CSIRO’s rights at common law 
in respect of the events that are the subject of the indemnity. 
18.2 Contribution 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
39 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(a) 
Each party’s liability to the other party for any Loss arising out of this Agreement is reduced to the 
extent that the other party contributed to the Loss.  
(b) 
To the extent permitted at Law, the operation of Chapter 7A of the Civil Law (Wrongs) Act 2002 
(ACT) and any equivalent legislation applying in another jurisdiction applicable to a Claim made 
against a party in relation to this Agreement, is expressly excluded in determining the rights, 
obligations and liabilities of the parties in any Claim arising under this Agreement, including the 
rights, obligations and liabilities of the parties arising under any indemnity in this Agreement. 
18.3 Indirect or Consequential Loss 
 
Notwithstanding any other clause of this Agreement, neither party will be liable to the other for any 
Indirect or Consequential Loss. 
19. 
Termination  
19.1 Termination for convenience  
(a) 
CSIRO may terminate this Agreement at any time by giving reasonable written notice. 
(b) 
If this Agreement is terminated under clause 19.1(a), CSIRO is liable only for: 
i. payments under clause 7 for Goods and/or Services provided in accordance with this 
Agreement before the effective date of termination; and 
ii. reasonable costs actually incurred by the Supplier and directly attributable to the termination 
that the Supplier can substantiate to CSIRO’s reasonable satisfaction. 
(c) 
CSIRO is not liable to pay compensation under clause 19.1(b)ii for: 
i. an amount that would, in addition to any amounts paid or due, or becoming due, to the Supplier 
under this Agreement, exceed the Total Contract Price; or 
ii. any Indirect or Consequential Loss that is or may be suffered or incurred by the Supplier. 
19.2 Termination for Force Majeure Event 
(a) 
A party may terminate this Agreement effective immediately by giving notice to the other party if 
the other party has been unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement for more than 
three months because of a Force Majeure Event. 
(b) 
On termination of this Agreement under clause 19.2(a), CSIRO will only be liable to pay for Goods 
and/or Services provided in accordance with this Agreement before the effective termination date 
and neither party will be entitled to Claim any compensation or damages from the other in relation 
to the termination. 
19.3 Termination by CSIRO for default 
(a) 
To the extent permitted by Law, CSIRO may terminate this Agreement effective immediately by 
giving written notice to the Supplier if: 
i. the Supplier breaches a material provision of this Agreement and that breach is not capable of 
remedy;  
ii. the Supplier breaches any provision of this Agreement and fails to remedy the breach within 
20 Business Days after receiving notice requiring it to do so;  
iii. the Supplier becomes Insolvent;  
iv. the Supplier undergoes a Change in Control and, in the reasonable view of CSIRO, this Change 
in Control would result in the Supplier being Controlled by or under common Control with an 
Inappropriate Person, and/or being unable to materially perform its obligations under this 
Agreement; or 
v. the Supplier, by any act or omission, places CSIRO’s information, assets or its reputation at risk; 
or 
vi. this Agreement otherwise entitles CSIRO to do so. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
40 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(b) 
If CSIRO issues a notice of termination under clause 19.3(a) and it is determined that the purported 
termination is wrongful, it will be deemed to be a notice of termination under clause 19.1(a). 
19.4 Termination by the Supplier for default 
 
The Supplier may terminate this Agreement by giving at least 10 Business Days’ written notice to CSIRO 
if: 
(a) 
CSIRO has not, within 60 Business Days of receipt of a correctly rendered invoice, either:  
i. paid the invoice; or  
ii. notified the Supplier in writing that it disputes any amounts specified in the invoice; and 
(b) 
the Supplier has given CSIRO: 
i. a first notice 20 Business Days after the due date of the invoice, specifying the failure to pay 
and giving CSIRO at least 20 Business Days to pay the invoice; and 
ii. a second notice 10 Business Days after the first notice, referring to the first notice and advising 
CSIRO that it has 10 Business Days (or such longer period as is specified in the first notice) to 
pay the invoice. 
19.5 Consequences of termination 
 
If CSIRO issues a notice under clause 19.1(a), 19.2(a) or 19.3(a), the Supplier must: 
(a) 
stop the supply of the Goods and Services in accordance with the notice; 
(b) 
deal with CSIRO Material as reasonably directed by CSIRO;  
(c) 
subject to clause 19.1(b)ii repay on demand any advance payments made by CSIRO for Goods or 
Services not provided by the effective termination date; 
(d) 
within 10 Business Days, return all CSIRO Confidential Information to CSIRO; 
(e) 
comply with any reasonable directions given to the Supplier by CSIRO relating to the termination; 
and 
(f) 
mitigate all Loss (including the costs of its compliance with any directions) in relation to the 
termination, including those arising from affected Subcontracts. 
19.6 Termination does not affect accrued rights 
 
Termination of this Agreement does not affect any accrued rights or remedies of a party under this 
Agreement or at Law.   
20. 
Disengagement and transition out 
(a) 
If required by CSIRO, the Supplier must take all actions that are reasonably necessary to ensure 
that there is an efficient and effective transmission of the Services to CSIRO or its nominee when 
this Agreement ends, so as to cause minimum disruption to the Services and minimum 
inconvenience to CSIRO. Without prejudice to the generality of that obligation, the Supplier must: 
i. cooperate with, and provide all reasonable assistance and make available all required 
information to, CSIRO in support of the transition out of the Supplier and the transition to CSIRO 
or any new contractor of the provision of the Services; 
ii. make Representatives available for discussions with CSIRO; and 
iii. transfer to CSIRO or its nominee all CSIRO Material and Contract Material (and, if it is data or 
information, provide it in a non-proprietary format that is readily usable by CSIRO or its 
nominee together with sufficient information to allow reading, searching, interpretation and 
processing of the CSIRO Material and Contract Material by CSIRO or its nominee). 
(b) 
The Supplier must provide to CSIRO such evidence as CSIRO reasonably requires to verify the 
Supplier's performance of its obligations under this clause 20. 
21. 
Dispute resolution 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
41 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
21.1 Agreed procedure 
 
Subject to clause 21.6, if there is a dispute in relation to this Agreement, the parties must comply with 
this clause 21 to seek to resolve the dispute before initiating legal proceedings. If a party does not comply 
with this clause 21 in relation to a dispute, the other party does not have to comply with this clause in 
relation to the dispute. 
21.2 Notice 
 
If a party believes a dispute has arisen in relation to this Agreement, that party must give written notice 
to the other party, adequately identifying and providing details of the dispute. 
21.3 Escalation 
 
On receipt of a dispute notice under clause 21.2, the parties must use their best efforts to resolve the 
dispute without delay, including by escalating the dispute to authorised representatives of the parties 
who have authority to resolve the dispute.  
21.4 Mediation 
(a) 
If the parties are unable to resolve a dispute in accordance with clause 21.3 within 20 Business 
Days after receipt of a dispute notice under clause 21.2, the parties must attempt to resolve the 
dispute through confidential mediation of the dispute to be administered on a without prejudice 
basis by a mediator appointed by the Australian Disputes Centre (ADC), or by such other mediator 
as is agreed by the Parties. Such mediation must be conducted in accordance with the ADC’s 
mediation rules (or such other rules as the parties agree) and take place at a mutually agreed 
location. 
(b) 
If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute by confidential mediation, either party may 
commence legal proceedings at the conclusion of the mediation. 
21.5 Confidentiality and costs 
(a) 
Any information or documents disclosed by a party under this clause 21 must be kept confidential 
and may only be used to attempt to resolve the dispute. 
(b) 
Each party must pay its own costs of complying with this clause 21. 
21.6 Exclusions 
 
This dispute resolution procedure does not:  
(a) 
prevent a party from applying to a court for urgent interlocutory or declaratory relief, or any relief 
to protect IPR or Confidential Information; or 
(b) 
apply to any dispute in relation to a set-off under clause 7.6 or termination by CSIRO under clause 
19.3. 
21.7 Continuation of performance  
 
Despite the existence of a dispute, the Supplier must, unless directed by CSIRO in writing not to do so, 
continue to provide the Goods and/or Services. 
22. 
Notices and other communications 
(a) 
Subject to clause 22(b), a notice or other communication in relation to this Agreement must be in 
writing, marked for the attention of the Supplier Contract Manager or the CSIRO Contract 
Administrator (as appropriate) and delivered by hand delivery, express post or courier for 
Australian domestic mail, air mail for international post, or email, to the address specified in the 
Agreement Details as appropriate (as updated from time to time by notice from the recipient to 
the sender). 
(b) 
Any notice of a Claim against CSIRO must be marked to the attention of the Chief Legal Officer, 
CSIRO. 
(c) 
A notice or communication provided in accordance with this clause 22 takes effect when it is 
received (or at a later time specified in the communication) and is taken to be received: 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
42 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
i. if hand delivered, on delivery; 
ii. if posted by express post or courier in Australia, on the first Business Day after posting; 
iii. if posted to or from a place outside Australia, on the tenth Business Day after posting; or 
iv. if emailed, at the time that would be the time of receipt under the Electronic Transactions Act 
1999 (Cth). 
23. 
Miscellaneous 
23.1 Applicable Law 
 
This Agreement (other than clause 23.9(b)) is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the 
Laws applicable in the Australian Capital Territory and each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits 
to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Australian Capital Territory and any courts of appeal 
from those courts. 
23.2 Entire agreement 
 
This Agreement represents the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior representations, 
communications, contracts, statements and understandings, whether oral or in writing, by the parties, or 
their Representatives, relating to its subject matter. 
23.3 Relationship 
(a) 
A party is not, and must not represent itself as, an employee, agent, partner or joint venturer of 
the other party. The relationship between CSIRO and the Supplier is and will remain for the term 
of this Agreement one of principal and independent contractor. 
(b) 
The Supplier's Representatives involved in the performance of this Agreement are not, and the 
Supplier must ensure they do not represent themselves as being, legal representatives, agents, 
officers, partners, servants or employees of CSIRO. 
(c) 
Nothing in this Agreement prevents CSIRO from obtaining goods and/or services that are the same 
as or similar to the Goods and/or Services from any other supplier.    
23.4 Assignment or novation of rights 
 
The Supplier may not assign or novate any of its rights under this Agreement without the prior written 
consent of CSIRO, which will not be unreasonably withheld.  
23.5 Varying this Agreement 
 
This Agreement may only be varied in writing signed by the authorised representatives of both parties.   
23.6 Waiver 
 
A provision of, or a right created under, this Agreement may not be waived except in writing signed by 
the party or parties to be bound. 
23.7 Further steps 
 
Each party must promptly do whatever any other party reasonably requires of it to give effect to this 
Agreement and to perform its obligations under it, including to sign, execute or otherwise deal with any 
document. 
23.8 Costs  
 
Each party will bear its own costs of entering into this Agreement. 
23.9 Counterparts and electronic execution  
(a) 
This Agreement may consist of a number of counterparts and the counterparts taken together 
constitute one and the same instrument. 
(b) 
This Agreement may be executed electronically in any manner that is legally effective in the place 
of execution. 
23.10 Survival 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
43 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(a) 
Clauses 2.3 (Inspection and Acceptance of Goods, Services and Deliverables), 5 (Supplier 
warranties), 7.6 (Set-off), 10 (Intellectual Property Rights), 12 (Confidential Information), 13 
(Security), 15.2 (Privacy), 15.3 (Data retention), 15.4 (access to premises and records), 17 
(Insurance), 18 (Indemnity and liability), 19 (Termination), 20 (Disengagement and transition out), 
21 (Dispute resolution) and 23 (Miscellaneous) survive the termination or expiry of this Agreement, 
as do any other provisions that by implication from their nature are intended to survive 
termination or expiry of this Agreement.  
(b) 
Termination or expiry of this Agreement does not affect any accrued rights or remedies of a party.  
23.11 Change in Control of the Supplier 
 
The Supplier must notify CSIRO within 5 Business Days if it undergoes, or it becomes aware that it is going 
to undergo, a Change in Control. 
24. 
Definitions and interpretation 
24.1 Definitions 
 
In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 
Accepted means accepted by CSIRO in accordance with clause 2.3(d), and Accept and Acceptance 
have a corresponding meaning.  
 
Agency means a ‘Commonwealth entity’, as defined in the Public Governance, Performance and 
Accountability Act 2013 (Cth).  
 
Agreement means this document and includes the Schedules and any attachments or annexures to it. 
 
Background IP means IPR of the Supplier that are: 
(a) 
in existence at the Commencement Date or are subsequently brought into existence other than 
as a result of the performance of this Agreement; and  
(b) 
embodied in, or attach to, the Goods or Services or other Deliverables, or are otherwise 
necessarily related to the functioning or operation of the Goods or Services or other 
Deliverables, 
 
and includes the IPR specified in Item Error! Reference source not found., or that subsist in respect of 
the materials specified in Item Error! Reference source not found..  Background IP does not include 
Third Party IP or CSIRO IP. 
 
Business Day means a day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or bank or public holiday in the place where 
the Services are to be performed or an action is to be performed and, in all other cases, where the 
CSIRO Contract Administrator is located.  
 
Change in Control means any change in the Supplier’s ownership or corporate structure that results 
in a change in Control of the Supplier.  
 
Charges means the amounts payable for any Goods set out in, or calculated in accordance with 
Schedule 2. 
 
Claim means any cause of action, allegation, claim, demand, debt, liability, suit or proceeding of any 
nature however arising in relation to this Agreement or its subject matter, whether arising under 
contract (including under any warranty or indemnity or any other breach, actual or anticipatory) and 
whether present or future, fixed or unascertained, actual or contingent or at law (including negligence 
or any other tort), in equity, in restitution, strict liability, under statute or otherwise.  
 
Commencement Date means the date specified in Item 5. 
 
Confidential Information means all information disclosed in any form or medium that:  
(a) 
is designated by a party as confidential; 
(b) 
is by its nature confidential; or 
(c) 
the other party knows or ought to know is confidential, 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
44 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
but does not include information that is or becomes public knowledge otherwise than by a breach of 
this Agreement or any other confidentiality obligation. 
 
Contract Material means any material (including Deliverables) and information created by or on behalf 
of the Supplier for the purpose of performing its obligations under this Agreement. Examples may 
include physical items, software, databases, and reports. 
 
Control has the meaning given by section 50AA of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
 
CSIRO means the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation ABN 41 687 119 230.  
 
CSIRO Contract Administrator means the person specified in Item 2, or any substitute notified in 
writing to the Supplier from time to time.  
 
CSIRO IP means the IPR that is embodied in CSIRO Material. 
 
CSIRO Material means all material and information provided or made available by CSIRO to the 
Supplier for the purpose of enabling the Supplier to perform its obligations under this Agreement, 
including the material listed Schedule 1.  
 
Deliverable means a thing, other than Intellectual Property, that the Supplier must supply as a part of 
the Goods or Services to be supplied, as specified in Schedule 1. 
 
End Date means the date specified in Item 6 or, if this Agreement is extended under clause 1.2, the 
date on which the relevant option period expires.  
 
Expenses means any expenses approved in accordance with Schedule 2. 
 
Fees means the amounts payable for any Services set out in, or calculated in accordance with Schedule 
2. 
 
Force Majeure Event means an event that is beyond the affected party’s reasonable control, including 
war, terrorism, natural disaster, declared pandemic or labour dispute not solely involving that party’s 
Representatives, but not including: 
(a) 
lack of funds for any reason; or  
(b) 
any strike, lockout and / or labour disputes involving only the affected party or its 
Representatives. 
 
Goods means the goods provided, or required to be provided, by the Supplier, as set out or described 
in this Agreement, including in Schedule 1. 
 
GST has the meaning given to that term in the GST Law. 
 
GST Law has the meaning given to that term in the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 
1999 (Cth). 
 
Harmful Code means any form of harmful or surreptitious code or other contaminants, including 
commands, instructions, devices, techniques, bugs, web bugs, software locks, software keys, 
automatics, random expiry dates, virus, trojan horses, spyware or adware. 
 
Illegal Worker means a person who: 
(a) 
has unlawfully entered and remains in Australia; 
(b) 
has lawfully entered Australia but remains in Australia after the person’s visa has expired; or 
(c) 
is working in breach of the person’s visa conditions. 
 
Indirect or Consequential Loss means: 
(a) 
loss of business revenue or profit; 
(b) 
loss of reputation or good will; 
(c) 
loss of customers, business or any contract; 
(d) 
loss of opportunity; 
(e) 
loss of productivity; 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
45 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
(f) 
loss arising from exchange rate fluctuation; and 
(g) 
special, exemplary, contingent, incidental or punitive damages; and 
 
includes any costs or expenses in relation to the types of Loss described in paragraphs (a) to (g) above, 
but does not include the following types of Loss that may be suffered or incurred by CSIRO: 
(a) 
time expended due to a breach of this Agreement by the Supplier; 
(b) 
costs of re-tendering for the subject matter of this Agreement; 
(c) 
costs of obtaining alternate goods and/or services to the extent that such cost exceeds the 
amount that would have been payable to the Supplier under this Agreement; and 
(d) 
costs of implementing remedial measures to work-around or compensate for any breach of this 
Agreement by the Supplier. 
 
Information Security Manual means the Australian Government Information Security Manual that 
governs the security of government information and communications technology systems, as 
amended or replaced from time to time.  
 
Inappropriate Person is defined in clause 15.9. 
 
Insolvent includes: 
(a) 
ceasing to carry on business; 
(b) 
being an insolvent under administration; 
(c) 
being insolvent;  
(d) 
being in liquidation, administration or receivership; 
(e) 
having a controller, receiver, liquidator or administrator appointed as defined under the 
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth),  
(f) 
being declared bankrupt; 
(g) 
assigning an estate for the benefit of creditors;  
(h) 
being dissolved or wound up; or  
(i) 
having something with the same or similar effect as described in paragraphs (a) to (h) above 
happen under the laws of any jurisdiction. 
 
Insurance Requirements means the requirements specified in Item 9.  
 
Intellectual Property Rights or IPR means: 
(a) 
all rights in copyright, trade marks (including service marks), trade and service names, designs, 
circuit layouts, patents, inventions, discoveries, know-how and other protectable rights that 
may arise in respect of any scientific or technical information; and  
(b) 
all other proprietary rights or forms of protection of intangible property of a similar nature or 
having similar or equivalent effect to any of them, whether under international convention or 
otherwise, 
 
that may subsist anywhere in the world, whether current or future, or registered (including 
applications, or the right to apply, for registration of any of the above) or unregistered. 
 
Item means an item listed in one of the Schedules. 
 
Law means any applicable statute, regulation, by-law, ordinance or subordinate legislation in force 
from time to time: 
(a) 
in Australia, whether made by a State, Territory, the Commonwealth, or a local government, 
and includes the common law and rules of equity, as applicable from time to time; and 
(b) 
if any part of this Agreement is to be performed outside Australia, in that place. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
46 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
Loss means all loss, damage, liability, cost or expense and includes any legal costs on a full indemnity 
basis and any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense suffered or incurred or agreed to be paid by way 
of settlement or compromise. 
 
Milestone Date means a timeframe by which the Goods and/or Services must be delivered or provided 
by the Supplier as may be specified in Schedule 1. 
 
Option Notice means a notice given by CSIRO to the Supplier in accordance with clause 1.2 of Schedule 
4 to the effect that CSIRO wishes to extend the term of the Agreement for the relevant Option Period.  
 
Option Period means an option period specified in Item 7. 
 
Personal Information has the meaning given to that term in the Privacy Act. 
 
Privacy Act means the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). 
 
Relevant Law means Law of any place where any part of the Goods may be produced, transported or 
delivered, and/or Services may be carried out. 
 
Removal Date means the date on which the Supplier removes Goods or Deliverables from CSIRO’s 
premises under clause 2.3(d), or the expiry of the maximum period specified in that clause for such 
removal, whichever occurs first. 
 
Representative of a party means an employee, agent, officer, director, auditor, adviser, partner, 
consultant, joint venturer or Subcontractor of that party.  
 
Services means the services specified in Schedule 1, including the supply of all Deliverables, and such 
other services as are reasonably incidental to those services.  
 
Subcontractor means any person or entity subcontracted by the Supplier in the performance of this 
Agreement, whether directly or via one or more further subcontract arrangements, and Subcontract 
has the corresponding meaning. 
 
Supplier means the person or entity specified in Item 3 and, when the context permits, includes their 
or its Representatives.  
 
Supplier Contract Manager means the person specified in Item 4, or any substitute notified in writing 
to CSIRO from time to time. 
 
Tax includes: 
(a) 
any tax, withholding tax, charge, rate, duty (including stamp duty and customs duty), impost, 
excise, tax by whatever name called and whether Australian, foreign, State/Territory, 
municipal, provincial, county or local (not including GST unless the context requires otherwise); 
and 
(b) 
any interest, charge, penalty, fee, fine or other amount of any kind assessed, charged or 
imposed on or in respect of the above. 
 
Tax Invoice has the meaning given to that term in the GST Law. 
 
Third Party IP means IPR owned or controlled by a party other than CSIRO, the Supplier or the 
Supplier’s Representatives, that are: 
(a) 
specified in Item Error! Reference source not found., or that subsist in respect of the materials 
specified in Item Error! Reference source not found.; and 
(b) 
embodied in, or attach to, the Goods and/or Services or are otherwise necessarily related to 
the functioning or operation of the Goods and/or Services.  
 
Total Contract Price means the amount specified in Item 8. 
 
WGE Act means the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth). 
 
WHS Act means the Work Health and Safety Act 2011 (Cth) and any corresponding WHS Law within 
the meaning of section 4 of the WHS Act. 
 
WHS Laws means the WHS Act and WHS Regulations. 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
47 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
 
WHS Regulations means the regulations made under the WHS Act. 
24.2 Interpretation 
 
In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears: 
(a) 
if any word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other part of speech or other grammatical 
form of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning; 
(b) 
“including” means including without limitation; 
(c) 
if a period of time is specified and dates from a given day or the day of an act or event, it is to be 
calculated exclusive of that day; 
(d) 
a unit of measurement is taken to be expressed in Australian legal units of measurement; 
(e) 
no rule of construction will apply to the interpretation of a clause to the disadvantage of a party 
merely because that party put forward the clause or would otherwise benefit from it; 
(f) 
a reference to a person includes a partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, 
corporation and a government or statutory body or authority and (as the case may be) the person’s 
legal personal representatives, successors, assigns and persons substituted by novation; 
(g) 
a reference to time is to local time in the place where the Services are to be performed or an act 
(including service of a notice) is to be performed and, in all other cases, where the CSIRO Contract 
Administrator is located; 
(h) 
a reference to "$" or "dollars" is a reference to Australian currency; and 
(i) 
this or any other document includes the document as novated, varied or replaced and despite any 
change in the identity of the parties. 
24.3 Inconsistent terms 
 
If there is any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement, the provision in the higher ranked 
document listed below will prevail to the extent of the inconsistency: 
(a) 
the Special Conditions in Schedule 3 (if any); 
(b) 
these terms and conditions (and, as between them, in the order in which they appear); 
(c) 
the Schedules, except for Schedule 3 (and, as between them, in the order in which they appear);  
(d) 
any Attachments or Annexes (and, as between them, in the order in which they appear); and 
(e) 
any document incorporated by reference. 

 
Contract Number - 2576  
 
48 
  
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Schedule 5. 
Site Plans 
1. 
Clayton Precinct 
 

 
Contract number 2576 
 
49 
 
 
Version 1 updated 6 March 2026 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
2. 
Aspendale
 
 
3. 
Werribee Sneydes Road 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Contract Number - 2576  
 
50 
  
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
4. 
Werribee South Road  
 
 




============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: CSIRORFT2026019 Addendum 3.pdf
============================================================

 
Page 1 of 2 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
ADDENDUM NO. 3 
REQUEST FOR TENDER (RFT) 
CSIRORFT2026019 - GROUND MAINTENANCE SERVICES FOR CSIRO 
MANAGED SITES VIC METRO 
 
This Addendum is issued on 6 August 2026 by CSIRO in response to clarification questions. CSIRO accepts no 
responsibility if a Tenderer fails to become aware of any alteration, correction or notice, which would have 
been apparent from a visit to the AusTender website or from other information available from the CSIRO 
Contact Officer. 
Please email any questions in relation to this RFT to the CSIRO Contact Officer at:  
EMAIL 
CSIRORFT2026019@CSIRO.au  
RFT CLOSING TIME AND DATE 
2:00pm (Local ACT time ) on 17 August 2026  
 
CLARIFICATION QUESTIONS 
Q1 
Are there any storage areas on site for small/ medium equipment and/ or larger equipment, 
including mowers? 
A1 
CSIRO have temporary storage on site in Clayton only. Other sites like Werribee and Aspendale, 
do not have storage. 
Q2 
Can CSIRO provide measured areas (turf, garden beds, hardstand) or site plans for each 
location? 
A2 
Unfortunately, we do not provide such measurements. 
Q3 
Does cleaning of roadways, paths and carparks require periodic jet washing? 
A3 
No. Jet washing is only required on an ad hoc basis. CSIRO expect roadway and carpark cleaning 
to be done by road sweeper or of similar nature. 
Q4 
In the event that removal of dead limbs from trees requires a road closure, will CSIRO be 
responsible for arranging this with the relevant local authority? 
A4 
No, the Contractor will be responsible for arranging with local authority. CSIRO will be 
responsible for the communication with staff members on site. 

 
 
2 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
CLARIFICATION QUESTIONS 
Q5 
In relation to Addendum No. 1 regarding mulch costs. The response states that the 
Contractor shall pay for the mulch, but also notes that the Contractor "may then pass on the 
cost to CSIRO." Could CSIRO please confirm whether the intent is that CSIRO ultimately bears 
the cost of mulch (with the Contractor procuring and invoicing it, with or without a mark-up 
per Draft Contract schedule 2, clause 2.2), or whether the Contractor is expected to absorb 
this cost within its tendered pricing?  
Clayton's estimated usage is 20m³/quarter, which reads like an included routine service item 
rather than an ad hoc item. Should mulch supply/install be priced as a fixed recurring line 
item in the base Pricing Tables, or purely as a rate under the reactive Schedule of Rates? 
A5 
In regard to the supply of mulch, the Contractor is required to include the cost of delivery and 
spreading the mulch in the garden bed as part of their Tender pricing. However, if the mulches 
are generated locally (i.e. from mulching tree branches/ trunks) the Contractor should provide 
an hourly rate to spread the mulch. 
Mulch supply should be a fixed recurring line item. 
 




============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: CSIRORFT2026019 Addendum 2.pdf
============================================================

 
Page 1 of 1 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
ADDENDUM NO. 2 
REQUEST FOR TENDER (RFT) 
CSIRORFT2026019 - GROUND MAINTENANCE SERVICES FOR CSIRO 
MANAGED SITES VIC METRO 
 
This Addendum is issued on 5 August 2026 by CSIRO in response to a clarification question. CSIRO accepts no 
responsibility if a Tenderer fails to become aware of any alteration, correction or notice, which would have 
been apparent from a visit to the AusTender website or from other information available from the CSIRO 
Contact Officer. 
Please email any questions in relation to this RFT to the CSIRO Contact Officer at:  
EMAIL 
CSIRORFT2026019@CSIRO.au  
RFT CLOSING TIME AND DATE 
2:00pm (Local ACT time ) on 17 August 2026  
 
CLARIFICATION QUESTIONS 
Q1 
Section 1.18 Sustainable Procurement outlines CSIRO's commitment to achieving 
net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030 and net zero supply chain emissions by 
2050, demonstrating a clear commitment to reducing emissions. We also note that 
Section 1.8 Equipment states that no equipment, fuel or charging apparatuses are 
to be stored on site. 
Could you please confirm whether contractors are permitted to charge battery-
powered equipment onsite during normal working hours, or whether all charging 
must occur offsite? 
A1 
Yes, contractors will be permitted to charge their batteries during normal working 
hours. They will need to disconnect and remove them from site when they finish for 
the day and leave site. 
 




============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: CSIRORFT2026019 Addendum 1.pdf
============================================================

 
Page 1 of 2 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
ADDENDUM NO. 1 
REQUEST FOR TENDER (RFT) 
CSIRORFT2026019 - GROUND MAINTENANCE SERVICES FOR CSIRO 
MANAGED SITES VIC METRO 
This Addendum is issued on 29 July 2026 by CSIRO in response to questions received. CSIRO accepts no 
responsibility if a Tenderer fails to become aware of any alteration, correction or notice, which would have 
been apparent from a visit to the AusTender website or from other information available from the CSIRO 
Contact Officer. 
Please email any questions in relation to this RFT to the CSIRO Contact Officer at:  
EMAIL 
CSIRORFT2026019@CSIRO.au  
RFT CLOSING TIME AND DATE 
2:00pm (Local ACT time ) on 17 August 2026  
 
ADDDITIONAL SITE VISIT DATES 
CSIRO will be holding additional site visits on the below dates. Tenderers who attended previous site 
visits are not required to attend the additional site visits. 
Site 
Site Address 
Site Visit Time 
Clayton Precinct (Clayton, 
Clayton North, Notting Hill) 
Main Reception Research Way, 
Clayton 
Thursday 6 August 2026 
9am – 11am 
Aspendale 
Main 
Reception 
Robertson 
Parade, Aspendale 
Thursday 6 August 2026 
1pm – 2pm 
Werribee 
(Sneydes 
Rd, 
South Road) 
Main Reception 671 Sneydes  Rd 
Werribee 
Wednesday 5 August  
11am – 12pm 
CLARIFICATION QUESTIONS 
Q1 
Who pays for the supply of mulch? CSIRO or supplier? 
A1 
The Contractor shall pay for the mulch. If possible, the Contractor should utilise 
mulches processed from trees and branches from our site. Otherwise please ensure 
all externally sourced mulches are free from contaminants, i.e. asbestos and SMF. The 
Contactor may then pass on the cost to CSIRO.  

 
 
2 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
CLARIFICATION QUESTIONS 
Q2 
The grounds maintenance tender has mentioned that  
both the 10th and 17th are mentioned as the closing date on the same page. 
A2 
The closing date is 2:00pm (Local ACT time ) on 17 August 2026 
Q3 
If the hedges in courtyard etc exceed 1.8 metres whose responsibility, is it? 
A3 
The Contractor will also be responsible for hedges above 1.8m. 
Q4 
What quantity of Mulch per year is estimated per site. Are the volumes able to be 
quantified? 
A4 
The Clayton site is estimated to use 20m3 of mulch each quarter. The other sites 
operate on an ad hoc basis. 
 


