================================================================================
AUSTENDER DETAILS: Current ATM View - PROCFY26078
================================================================================

Detail URL: https://www.tenders.gov.au/Atm/Show/d947d7e8-17cf-4796-9f49-e74fed4b7c8b
Scraped At: 2026-08-13 00:17:19

STRUCTURED ATTRIBUTES:
----------------------------------------
ATM ID: PROCFY26078
Agency: Tourism Australia
Category: 80141607 - Events management
Close Date & Time: 15-Aug-2026 10:00 am (ACT Local Time) Show close time for other time zones
Publish Date: 21-Jul-2026
Location: Overseas
ATM Type: Request for Tender
Multi Agency Access: No
Panel Arrangement: No
Multi-stage: No
Description: This tender is seeking a suitably qualified and experienced Event Management Company to provide end-to-end management, strategic planning and on-site logistical execution for Tourism Australia's nominated signature events in the North American market held between 2027-2029.
Other Instructions: 
Conditions for Participation: See section 4.2 of Request for Tender document
Timeframe for Delivery: Estimated commencement of contract from 1 December 2026
Address for Lodgement: AusTender at www.austender.gov.au in accordance with instructions in the Request for Tender documentation
Addenda Available: View Addenda

================================================================================


============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: PRO-TENCM-Attachment 3 Draft Contract-PROCFY26078.docx
============================================================

Long Form Services Agreement
between 

TOURISM AUSTRALIA
and
[INSERT COMPANY NAME]
in relation to Event Management Services 2027-2029: North America
Financial Year 2027/28, 2028/29, 2029/30
Schedule1 : Agreement Details

 Agreed Terms
Definitions
In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
Additional Insurance Policies means the insurance policies specified in Schedule 1 (if any), other than the insurance policies set out in clause 29.
Agreement means these agreed terms, Schedule 1, Schedule 2 and any other agreed annexure, schedule or appendix to this agreement, including any agreed variations executed by the parties in writing.
Anti-Corruption Laws has the meaning given to that term in clause 20.1.
Applicable WHS Law means any applicable occupational health and safety law, including any corresponding WHS law (as defined in section 4 of the WHS Act).
Artificial Intelligence System means a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day that is a public holiday in the state of New South Wales, Australia.
Claim means any claim, demand, proceeding, action, litigation, investigation or judgment whether based in contract, tort (including negligence), statute or otherwise.
Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct Code or Code means the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct, as published on 1 July 2024, as updated from time to time. 
Commencement Date means the date specified in Schedule 1.
Confidential Information means all information that:
is designated either specifically or generally as confidential in the Agreement; or
is designated by its owner as confidential or which the other party knows, or ought to know is confidential (provided that, if it is the Supplier’s information, it meets all four (4) criteria of the Confidentiality Test published on the Department of Finance website and TA agrees in writing to treat the information as confidential). Further information on the Confidentiality Test can be found at: Confidentiality throughout the Procurement Cycle | Department of Finance. 
Conflict of Interest, includes the following:
the provision of advice to, or the performance of any Services for, a person in a contractual relationship with TA that is connected with the Services; and
any situation which, in the reasonable view of an impartial observer, may hinder or prevent the Supplier from performing the Services in the best interests of TA.
Consequential Loss means any Loss that does not arise naturally in the ordinary course of things from the event or circumstance giving rise to the Loss. 
Contact means, for a party, the contact person specified in Schedule 1.
Contracted Items means the items, Deliverables, Services and Reports (including any combination of items, Deliverables, Services and Reports) provided or required to be provided by the Supplier to TA under and in accordance with this Agreement.
Contract Material has the meaning given to that term in clause 12.6.
Deliverable means the deliverables specified in Schedule 1. 
Delay means a failure by the Supplier to perform an obligation (including a failure to supply a Contracted Item) by the applicable Due Date.
Due Date means the date or time specified in the Agreement by or on which an obligation must be performed, as extended in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.
Eligible Data Breach means an ‘Eligible Data Breach’ as defined in the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). 
Expiration Date means the expiration date specified in Schedule 1.
Extension Period means the date specified in Schedule 1.
Fees means the fees specified in Schedule 1.
Force Majeure Event means:
an act of God, fire, lightening, earthquake, explosions, flood, subsidence or other natural disaster, insurrection or civil disorder or military operations or act of terrorism, expropriation, strikes, lock outs or other industrial disputes of any kind not relating solely to the party affected, currency restriction, embargo, public utility or common carrier or computer disruption due to the effects of a virus or other malicious code introduced other than through the acts or omissions of the party seeking relief; and
any other event which is not within the reasonable control of the party affected (which in the case of the Agreement includes the reasonable control of its subcontractors),
but does not include any act or omission of a party or a change in Law, legislation or government policy which from time to time regulates or affects the Services or the activities to which the Services relate during the term of this Agreement which has an increased cost effect on the delivery of the Services.
Grievance Mechanism means a process for handling a complaint or grievance about Modern Slavery practices that is consistent with the criteria set out in the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
GST means goods and services tax, sales tax or value-added tax, as defined in local applicable legislation.
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights means the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework available at https://www.ohchr.org/documents/publications/guidingprinciplesbusinesshr_en.pdf.
Indemnified Persons has the meaning given to that term in clause 27.1.
Insolvency Event means the occurrence of an event or circumstance that TA considers has or may have an adverse effect on the commercial or financial viability of the Supplier, the ability of the Supplier to perform its obligations under the Agreement, or the ability of TA to enforce its rights against the Supplier under or in connection with the Agreement.
Intellectual Property Rights means all present and future rights conferred by statute, common Law or equity in or in relation to any copyright, trade marks, designs, patents, circuit layouts, plant varieties, business and domain names, confidential information, inventions and other results of intellectual activity in the industrial, commercial, scientific, literary or artistic fields whether or not registered, registrable or patentable.
Invoice means an invoice correctly issued in accordance with Schedule 1.
Law means any statute, regulation, by-law, ordinance or subordinate legislation in force from time to time in the relevant jurisdiction and includes any industry codes of conduct.
Loss means any judgment, debt, damage, loss, cost, expense or liability howsoever arising and whether present or future, fixed or unascertained, actual or contingent whether at Law, in equity, or otherwise.
Material means material in any form (whether visible or not), including documents, advertisements (in print, electronic or recorded format), recordings on disc or any other form of storage, photographs, films, sound recordings, creative concepts, artwork, literary works, graphic works, musical works, models, designs, slogans, trade marks, trade names, logos, video tapes, transparencies, reports, products, equipment, information, data, software, software tools and software development methodologies, and includes all releases, updates and amendments to the original Material.
Maximum Aggregate Fee Amount means the amount specified in Schedule 1.
Meetings means the meetings specified in Schedule 1.
Milestones means the milestones specified in Schedule 1.
Modern Slavery Risk Management Plan has the meaning given in clause 24.3.
Modern Slavery has the same meaning as it has in the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth), as amended from time to time. 
Moral Rights means:
for authors, rights of integrity of authorship, rights of attribution of authorship, rights to not have authorship falsely attributed; and
for performers, rights of integrity of performership, rights of attribution of performership, rights to not have performership falsely attributed,
and rights of a similar nature conferred by statute, that exist or that may come to exist, anywhere in the world in any works or any part of any work in which copyright subsists that is created under this Agreement.
Notifiable Incident has the meaning given to it in clause 19.9.
Notice means an official notice or communication under the Agreement (as relevant) in writing, from one contract to the other contract, at the postal address, or email address, or facsimile number set out in Schedule 1 or as notified by the relevant party.
Personal Information means the definition set out in the relevant Privacy and Data Protection Laws. 
Personnel of a party means an employee, contractor, officer, director, auditor or advisor of that party but in the case of TA, does not include the Supplier.
Privacy and Data Protection Laws means in respect of a party, any Law, statute, declaration, decree, directive, legislative enactment, order, ordinance, regulation, rule or other binding instrument relating to the protection of personal data, including:  
the Directive 2002/58/EC (as amended) (the “e-Privacy Directive”);  
the Regulation 2016/679 (the “GDPR”);  
the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth); and 
any other applicable privacy and data protection Laws.
Professional Indemnity Insurance Amount means the amount specified in Schedule 1.
Professional Indemnity Insurance Period means the period specified in Schedule 1.
Public Liability Insurance Amount means the amount specified in Schedule 1.
Related Body Corporate has the meaning given in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Reports means the reports specified in Schedule 1.
Services means the services to be performed by the Supplier for TA in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, particulars of which are set out in Schedule 1.
Service Standards means the service standards specified in Schedule 1.
Significant Event means:
any adverse comments or findings made by a court, commission, tribunal or other statutory or professional body regarding the conduct or performance of the Supplier or its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors that impacts or could be reasonably perceived to impact on their professional capacity, capability, fitness or reputation; and/or
any other significant matters including the commencement of legal, regulatory or disciplinary action involving the Supplier or its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors that may adversely impact on compliance with Commonwealth policy and legislation or the Commonwealth's reputation.
Special Conditions means the special conditions specified in Schedule 1. 
Specified Personnel means the personnel specified in Schedule 1 as required to perform all or part of the work constituting the Services.
Subcontractor means:
any person engaged by the Supplier or by any other Supplier Related Body Corporate to perform all or part of any obligation of the Supplier relating to the Agreement; and
any person engaged by any of the people referred to in paragraph (a) to perform all or part of any obligation of the Supplier relating to the Agreement.
Supply Chain means any Subcontractor, agent, supplier or entity which contributes directly or indirectly to the supply or performance of the Contracted Items to TA, including entities in the network of business entities or individuals performing, providing, producing, handling, storing, transmitting or distributing:
an Artificial Intelligence System; or
components of an Artificial Intelligence System.
TA Data means:
data, information and other materials provided to, or obtained or generated by, the Supplier relating to TA or any of its operations, administration, facilities, suppliers, customers, Personnel, strategic or marketing plans, assets and programs (including Personal Information) (Raw Data); and
data, information and other materials in any format whatever generated, stored, processed, retrieved, printed or produced by or on behalf of the Supplier utilising the Raw Data.
TA Data Permitted Country means the countries to which the Supplier is permitted to transfer TA Data to or access TA Data from as outlined in Schedule 1. 
Term has the meaning given to that term in clause 3.2.
WHS Act means the Work Health and Safety Act 2011 (Cth).
Interpretation
In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
a capitalised term has the meaning given to that term in the Schedule or as defined in this Agreement, as the case may be;
clause and subclause headings are for reference purposes only;
the singular includes the plural and vice versa; 
where a word or phrase is defined its other grammatical forms have a corresponding meaning;
references to statutes include all statutes amending, consolidating or replacing such statutes;
$ means the lawful currency of Australia;
any reference to a party to this document includes its successors and permitted assigns; and
the use of the word "includes" or "including" is not to be taken as limiting the meaning of the words preceding it.
an expression importing a natural person includes a company, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other body corporate; and
a reference to a Law includes a constitutional provision, treaty, decree, convention, statute, regulation, ordinance, by-law judgment, rule of common law or equity or a rule of an applicable stock exchange and is a reference to that Law as amended, consolidated or replaced.
If any conflict arises between:
the Special Conditions in Schedule 1; 
the terms and conditions contained in the clauses of this Agreement;
any part of a Schedule (excluding the Special Conditions); and
any part of an attachment,
the earlier named item will prevail.
No confirmation, shipment or delivery docket, invoice or other similar document issued by or on behalf of the Supplier or any of its Personnel or TA (including the terms on any pre-printed purchase order form) will vary or form part of the Agreement.
Where the day on or by which something must be done is not a Business Day, that thing must be done on or by the following Business Day.
Headings are for convenience only and do not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
This Agreement is not to be interpreted against the interests of a party merely because that party proposed this Agreement or some provision in it or because that party relies on a provision of this Agreement to protect itself.
A term or expression starting with a capital letter:
which is defined in this Agreement, has the meaning given to it in this Agreement;
which is defined in the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) but is not defined in this Agreement, has the same meaning as given to it in that act; and
which is defined in Tourism Australia Act 2004 (Cth) but is not defined in this Agreement, has the same meaning as given to it in that act.
Term
TA engages the Supplier to provide the Services to TA on the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Supplier accepts that engagement.
This Agreement commences on the Commencement Date and will continue until the Expiration Date unless: 
TA, at its sole option, elects to extend this Agreement for one or more of the Extension Periods (if any) specified in the Schedule by written notice to the Supplier provided at least 30 days prior to the date of expiration of this Agreement; or
the Agreement is otherwise lawfully terminated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement,
(the Term).

TA is not obliged to extend this Agreement or enter into any further agreement with the Supplier.
Supplier obligations
Services
The Supplier must:
perform the Services as specified in Schedule 1, including the provision of any Deliverables, Reports and any other Contract Material;
prepare for, attend and ensure that relevant Personnel attend the Meetings;
adopt relevant best practice and any industry standards or guidelines specified by TA and meet or exceed the Service Standards;
comply with any reasonable directions given by TA from time to time; and
comply with the timeframe for the performance of the Services specified in Schedule 1, including any Milestones.
While on any premises occupied by TA, the Supplier will, and will ensure that any of its Personnel, behave in a manner acceptable to TA and must comply with all reasonable directions and procedures relating to security and occupational health and safety in effect at any premises occupied by TA, including the wearing of security passes.
The Supplier is responsible for the conduct of its Personnel at all times while engaged in performing the Services.
Subject to clause 33, neither the Supplier nor its Personnel assigned to perform the tasks are prevented from accepting work from other principals or using their own skill in any business in which they may lawfully be engaged during the Term or after its termination.
Delay and time for performance 
The Supplier must:
use its best endeavours to anticipate any potential failures by the Supplier to perform any of its obligations by the applicable then current Due Dates; and
take any and all steps necessary to avoid any failures of the type referred to in clause 4.5(a), including by implementing appropriate safeguards, systems and processes and, where necessary, reprogramming, expediting and adjusting its activities.
If the Supplier becomes aware of an actual or potential failure by the Supplier to perform any of its obligations by the applicable Due Date, the Supplier must:
immediately notify TA of that actual or potential delay specifying:
the cause of the delay; and
the impact of the delay, including any impacts on other Due Dates; 
ensure that any steps taken under clause 4.5 do not adversely impact the quality of the Contracted Items or result in any non-compliance with any of the Supplier's obligations under this clause 4.6. 
Nothing in clause 4.6 limits the liability of the Supplier to TA for failure to perform any of its obligations by the applicable Due Date. 
Personnel
The Supplier:
is solely responsible for making all deductions and performing all acts necessary in relation to the Supplier's Personnel under income tax legislation, superannuation legislation, payroll tax legislation, or other legislation which provides for long service leave or annual holidays to be paid; and
must pay and is solely responsible for all entitlements, whether relating to any contract or employment, long service leave, worker's compensation, superannuation, annual holidays or award entitlements of its employees or others who make their services available to the Supplier (including, the Supplier's Personnel in relation to the obligations set out in this Agreement).
The Supplier is fully responsible for the performance of the Services and for ensuring compliance with this Agreement and will not be relieved of that responsibility because of any:
subcontracting of the Services;
acceptance by TA of any Specified Personnel or replacement Personnel; or
payment made to the Supplier by TA.
TA’s public image
The Supplier must ensure that the Supplier and its Personnel provide the Services to TA in a manner which will not:
bring TA’s name into disrepute; or
otherwise damage TA’s reputation or overall public image, 
or threaten to do either of these things.
Co-operation with other agents
Where requested by TA, the Supplier must co-operate with any third party TA directs the Supplier to co-operate with, including another agency or contractor appointed by TA to provide services, to ensure the integrated and efficient carrying out of TA’s operations and provide such reasonable assistance to such other person as TA may request.
If TA directs the Supplier to co-operate with a third party as set out in clause 4.8, TA will provide the Supplier with details of the third party.
Value adding and continuous improvement 
The Supplier must encourage its Personnel to manifest a proactive approach to providing the Services.
The Supplier must meet with TA as requested by TA at any time during the Term to discuss suggestions from either party for areas of continuous improvement that will improve the Supplier’s efficiency, cost and management of the Services.
Compliance with TA policies and procedures
When providing the Services, the Supplier must comply with TA's policies and procedures as notified from time to time by TA to the Supplier. 
Disclosure
The Supplier must not:
represent or purport to represent TA, or express views or opinions purported to be representative of TA without the prior written agreement of TA;
disclose or make public any information or material acquired or produced in connection with this Agreement or providing the Services; or
engage in any misleading or deceptive conduct in relation to the Services,
the obligations of the Supplier under this clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
The Supplier acknowledges that Tourism Australia is an Australian Commonwealth Government entity and statutory authority, and as such, is subject to legislative and administrative accountability and transparency requirements including disclosures to the Australian Parliament and its committees and other disclosures pursuant to Australian legislation or Australian Commonwealth Government policy.  Notwithstanding any other clauses in this Agreement, TA may retain, and may publicly disclose, this Agreement, the Supplier's details or other information related to this Agreement, including any fees or payments under or pursuant to this Agreement.
Supply of Goods
Where, as part of the Services, the Supplier supplies parts, consumables or other goods:
the goods will be owned by, and all risk will pass to, TA from the date of delivery of the goods to TA; and
the Supplier must ensure that:
any goods (including consumables) are provided or used for the Services in a manner that minimises packaging waste;
the goods are fit for their intended purpose and comply with applicable Australian Standards;
TA obtains the full benefit of any warranties available in respect of the goods; and
if, when delivered or put into use by TA, the goods are defective in whole or part, they are promptly replaced or repaired at TA's sole discretion at no cost to TA.
Personnel
The Supplier must ensure that any of its Personnel involved in the performance of the Services:
have the necessary expertise, capacity and facilities required to perform the Services; and
will comply with all relevant obligations or conditions binding on the Supplier under this Agreement.
The Supplier agrees that the Specified Personnel will perform work in relation to the Services. If any Specified Personnel are unable to perform the work, the Supplier must notify TA immediately.
TA may at any time require the Supplier to cease to permit any particular Personnel (including any Specified Personnel) employed by it to be engaged or continue to be engaged in carrying out the Supplier's duties under this Agreement. 
If clause 6.2 or 6.3 applies, the Personnel will be replaced by the Supplier with the services of an alternative person acceptable to TA, use all reasonable endeavours to ensure continuity of involvement in the Services of all Personnel, and to ensure that new Personnel involved in the provision of the Services are properly trained, qualified, suitably skilled and inducted at no additional cost to TA.
Standards of performance
The Services must be performed by the Supplier:
exercising high professional standards of skill, care and diligence consistent with the standards of well managed operations performing services similar to the Services;
to ensure that the Services meet their purposes, are complete and are performed in a manner that achieves all Service Standards and any standards of performance included in or referred to in the Agreement;
to ensure maximum efficiency and effectiveness in the provision of the Services;
to ensure that TA is fully and accurately informed on all matters which are relevant to the Services;
to comply with any applicable or relevant ‘Standards Association of Australia Codes’.  If there are no ‘Standards Association of Australia Codes’ applicable, comply with any other industry standards;
to comply with all legal requirements, including statutory and regulatory requirements and safety standards; and
to ensure all obligations, including deadlines, specified in the Agreement are fully satisfied.
Where the Services include the provision of reports or the production of other documents or information, the Supplier must ensure that all:
reports or other documents or information contain all requested information and are accurate and not misleading in any respect;
working papers are neatly and legibly compiled and contain adequate information to demonstrate the nature and extent of the Services and sufficient evidence to substantiate all conclusions, findings and opinions;
observations, comments, conclusions and recommendations are in English and clearly explained and substantiated;
copies of all supporting documents are retained for review by TA if required; and
all advice provided orally or in writing is fit for purpose and specifically answers all issues and questions specified in or relevant to the Services in accordance with the Agreement.
Warranties
The Supplier warrants that:
it has and will continue to have, the skills, qualifications and experience to provide the Services in an efficient and controlled manner, with a high degree of quality and responsiveness and to a standard that at a minimum complies with this Agreement;
it will continuously seek to innovate and improve the performance of the Agreement and will inform TA of reduced costs as they occur and of any innovations and improvements; and
it will use adequate resources, including adequate numbers of appropriately qualified personnel, to perform the Services in accordance with this Agreement.
has full corporate power and authority to enter into, perform and observe its obligations under the Agreement and that the execution, delivery and performance of the Agreement has been duly and validly authorised by all necessary corporate action;
it enters into the Agreement on its own behalf and not in its capacity as a trustee for any trust;
it is, or will be at the relevant time, fully entitled to deal with the Intellectual Property Rights in the Contract Material in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; and
the Contract Material does not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights or Moral Rights of any person.
Invoices
The Supplier must provide TA with an Invoice for any amounts payable by TA under the Agreement.
The Supplier may issue an Invoice at the times and in the manner specified in Schedule 1.
Each Invoice must:
be calculated in accordance with the Agreement;
contain sufficient detail to enable TA to verify its accuracy; and
be in a form, and include all necessary information, for the Invoice to be a valid tax invoice for GST purposes and otherwise be in a form that complies with all other taxation requirements.
Subject to clauses 9.5 and Schedule 1 TA may require the Supplier to correct and reissue any incorrect Invoice, or cancel any Invoice not issued in accordance with the Agreement.
TA will be entitled to set-off any amounts that TA is otherwise legally entitled to recover from the Supplier under the Agreement or at Law against any amounts due by TA to the Supplier under the Agreement with 10 Business Days' notice.
Any exercise by TA of its rights under this clause will be without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to TA under the Agreement or otherwise.
Payment
Subject to clause 9.5 and the Supplier’s provision of the Services in accordance with this Agreement (including delivery by any applicable timeframe), TA will pay each Invoice that is correct and issued in accordance with the Agreement within 20 Business Days of the date on which TA receives the Invoice in the manner specified in Schedule 1.  The amount payable by TA to the Supplier is capped at the Maximum Aggregate Fee Amount and the Supplier is not entitled to receive any amounts above the Maximum Aggregate Fee Amount.
The Supplier must perform its obligations under this Agreement at its own cost and may not be reimbursed for any out of pocket expenses or disbursements incurred in connection with its provision of the Services other than as specified in Schedule 1.
TA may (in addition and without prejudice to any other right it may have) withhold or defer payment of any amount payable under this Agreement for so long as the Supplier has not completed, to the satisfaction of TA, that part of the Services to which the payment relates.
Taxes, duties and government charges
The Supplier acknowledges and agrees that TA makes no representations or warranties as to the amount and types of taxes to which the Supplier may be liable, whether in connection with this Agreement or otherwise.
Except as provided by this clause 11, the Supplier must pay all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the performance of this Agreement.
Unless otherwise indicated, all consideration for any supply made under this Agreement is inclusive of any GST imposed on the supply.
If one party (the supplier) makes a taxable supply to the other party (the recipient) under this Agreement, on receipt of a tax invoice from the supplier, the recipient must pay without setoff an additional amount to the supplier equal to the GST imposed on the supply in question.
No party may claim or retain from the other party under this Agreement any amount in relation to a supply made under this Agreement for which the first party may claim an input tax credit or decreasing adjustment.
Status of Supplier
For the purposes of this Agreement, the Supplier is an independent contractor and nothing in this Agreement constitutes a partnership between the parties, or makes either party the agent or employee of the other.  
Intellectual property
Ownership of Pre-Existing IP
Each party (or its licensors) will retain ownership of all Intellectual Property Rights subsisting in any material it provides or makes available to the other party under or in connection with the Agreement which is not Contract Materials (Pre-existing IP). 
License to use Pre-Existing IP
Each party grants to the other party a non-exclusive, royalty free licence to use, reproduce, modify and adapt its Pre-existing IP only to the extent necessary for the purpose of:
performing its obligations or exercising its rights under this Agreement; and
in the case of TA:
receiving the Services (including through use of the Contract Materials); and 
exercising its rights in the Contract Materials.
The licence granted to TA under clause 13.2:
is perpetual and irrevocable and will survive the termination or expiry of the Agreement for any reason; and
includes a right to sub-license the relevant licence rights to any agent, contractor, consultant, supplier or customer of TA for the purpose of enabling TA to enjoy the benefit of the Agreement.  
The licence granted to the Supplier under clause 13.2 is only granted for the Term and will immediately come to an end if the Agreement expires or is terminated for any reason.
No term, condition or warranty (whether express or implied) as to the nature, quality or fitness of TA's Materials shall form part of, or be a collateral term of, any contract between the parties.
Contract Material
Ownership of all Intellectual Property Rights newly created or newly developed by or on behalf of the Supplier:
to meet TA’s requirements under the Agreement;
in the course of providing the Services,
 (Contract Material) vests in TA from its creation.  The Supplier absolutely and unconditionally assigns, and must ensure that each of its Personnel assigns,  all of its right, title and interest in all Intellectual Property Rights in the Contract Material to TA and must do all things necessary to ensure that all rights and title in the Intellectual Property Rights in Contract Material passes to TA on the date of its creation.
TA grants to the Supplier a non-exclusive, royalty free licence to use, reproduce, modify and adapt the Intellectual Property Rights in the Contract Materials only to the extent necessary for the Supplier to provide the Services and perform its other obligations under the Agreement.  The licence granted to the Supplier under this clause is only granted for the term and will immediately come to an end if the Agreement expires or is terminated for any reason.
To the extent that any Contract Material is created by a third party:
the Supplier must, at its expense, ensure that the relevant third party absolutely and unconditionally assigns all of its right, title and interest in the Intellectual Property Rights in the Contract Material to TA;
the Supplier must immediately notify TA in writing before the creation of any Contract Material if it is unable to comply in any respect with clause 13.8(a); and
where the Supplier notifies TA under clause 13.8(b) that it is unable to obtain an assignment required by clause 13.8(a) and TA consents, in its absolute discretion, to the provision of a licence in respect of those unassignable Intellectual Property Rights, the Supplier must procure a licence in TA's favour that provides TA with the right to exercise all rights comprised in the copyright of the Contract Material (including the right to use, reproduce, adapt, perform and communicate that material to the public) for a period, and on terms, nominated by TA.
Moral Rights
The Supplier must procure the irrevocable consent of each creator of any part of any Contract Material in which copyright subsists or any performer who participates in or performs in any Contract Material in which copyright subsists, to allow TA in its absolute discretion to do or allow any third party to do any act or omission which would otherwise infringe any Moral Rights in the Contract Material.
The Supplier must obtain the consents and releases described in clause 13.9 in writing in substantially the same form as the form provided in Schedule 2.  The Supplier must provide TA with copies of each written consent obtained by the Supplier.
If the Supplier subcontracts any of its obligations under this Agreement in accordance with clause 34, the Supplier must procure that all subcontractors obtain written consents to all acts and omissions described in clause 13.9.
Trade marks
The Supplier will not, and will ensure that its Personnel and subcontractors do not, use TA's name or any trade mark owned or licensed by TA (TA Trade Marks) without the prior written consent of TA, and will submit a sample of the proposed use to TA for prior approval.
The Supplier must comply with all of TA's directions and guidelines concerning use of the TA's name or any TA Trade Mark, notified to the Supplier from time to time.
The Supplier must not use TA's name or any TA Trade Marks in a way likely to deceive or cause confusion or prejudice its distinctiveness or value or TA's goodwill or reputation.
The Supplier must provide all Contract Material to TA on request but may retain a copy of the Contract Material where it is necessary for it to do so for its own bona fide record keeping purposes. 
Use of Artificial Intelligence Systems
Approval required for use of Artificial Intelligence Systems
Where the Supplier intends to use an Artificial Intelligence System for the provision of the Contracted Items, it must, prior to the provision of the Contracted Items:
notify TA with details of the proposed Artificial Intelligence System technology and functionality relevant to the provision of the Contracted Items; and
obtain TA's prior written approval for such use.
Use of Artificial Intelligence Systems
Any use of an Artificial Intelligence System in connection with this Agreement, or provision of the Contracted Items, must at all times comply with:
all applicable Laws, regulations, policies and best practice relevant to responsible governance and use of Artificial Intelligence Systems, including:
the 'Policy for Responsible Use of AI in Government' as published, updated or replaced by the Commonwealth Digital Transformation Agency from time to time; 
the 'Voluntary AI Safety Standard' as published by the Australian Government Department of Industry, Science and Resources, or otherwise updated or replaced from time to time; and
all new Laws and regulations introduced during the term of this Agreement that apply the Supplier's use of an Artificial Intelligence System;
TA's approval and any conditions to the approval, if given; and
TA Policies, 
and any other requirements advised by TA from time to time.
The Supplier is fully responsible for the performance of this Agreement regardless of any use of an Artificial Intelligence System at any point in the Supply Chain used to provide the Contracted Items, including where the use of an Artificial Intelligence System is approved by TA.
Without limiting any other clause of this Agreement, if the Supplier uses any Artificial Intelligence System in the course of providing the Contracted Items, the Supplier must:
ensure the results, outputs or workings of the Artificial Intelligence System used in the course of providing the Contracted Items are accurate, transparent, explainable and justifiable, including by conducting quality assurance checks; and
provide, upon TA's request, a detailed explanation of how the Artificial Intelligence System generated specific outputs and the rationale behind them.
Where TA approves the use of an Artificial Intelligence System in the supplier of the Contracted Items, the Supplier must ensure that it retains, and provides to the Customer on request, detailed records of:
the Artificial Intelligence System used; 
the scope of the Artificial Intelligence System’s use in providing the Contracted Items;
any data collected, processed and stored by the Artificial Intelligence System; and 
any systems that the Artificial Intelligence System interacts with in connection with providing the Contracted Items.
Notwithstanding anything other provision of this Agreement, the Supplier is prohibited, without TA’s prior written consent, from reproducing, publishing, communicating, or otherwise using, in whole or in part, TA Pre-existing IP, Contract Material or TA Trade Marks to develop, train or direct, Generative Artificial Intelligence technology or models, including the mining or scraping of text, images or data from the TA Pre-existing IP, Contract Material or TA Trade Marks, whether undertaken by the Supplier or by third parties authorised, licensed or directed by the Supplier.
Privacy and information security
This clause 15 applies only to the extent that the Supplier deals with Personal Information in providing Services under this Agreement.
The Supplier must:
not input or disclose Personal Information into any form of Generative Artificial Intelligence System without TA’s prior written consent; 
use or disclose Personal Information obtained in the course of providing Services under this contract only for the purposes of this Agreement;
carry out and discharge the obligations contained in the Privacy and Data Protection Law as if it were bound by them;
not do any act or engage in any practice which would be a breach of, or would cause TA to breach, Privacy and Data Protection Law;
not use or disclose Personal Information for direct marketing, unless that use or disclosure is explicitly required under this Agreement;
not engage in an act or practice that would breach a Privacy and Data Protection Law, unless that act or practice is explicitly required under this Agreement;
comply with any directions, guidelines, determinations or recommendations referred to and provided to the Supplier, to the extent that they are consistent with the requirements of this clause 15; and
ensure that all Personnel required to deal with Personal Information for the purposes of this Agreement are made aware of the obligations of the Supplier set out in this clause 15.
The Supplier agrees to provide TA, or its nominee, relevant information (including personal information) relating to the Supplier, its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors, for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating or dealing with a fraud or security incident relating to the Agreement. When providing personal information of a natural person under this clause, the Supplier warrants it will have obtained the consent of or provided reasonable notification to the person in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). Nothing in these clauses limits or derogates from the Supplier’s obligations under the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth).
The Supplier agrees to notify TA immediately if it becomes aware of a breach or possible breach of any of the obligations contained in, or referred to in this clause 15, whether by the Supplier or a subcontractor, or the Personnel of the Supplier or subcontractor. 
The Supplier agrees to ensure that any subcontract entered into by the Supplier for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement imposes on the subcontractor the same obligations that the Supplier has under this clause 15 (including this requirement in relation to subcontracts).
Each party acknowledges and agrees that:
it must notify the other party as soon as reasonably practicable upon becoming aware of any unauthorised access to information, including Personal Information, it stores and handles and the extent and nature of that access (whether incidental or accidental access, or by any of its Personnel or subcontractors), and must comply with any reasonable directions of the other party in order to rectify the security incident; and 
it must, and must ensure that its Personnel and subcontractors, store and handle the Personal Information and information and its resources in premises and facilities that meet the minimum standards set by the Commonwealth under the Protective Security Policy Framework for storage and handling of such information, as applicable, of the relevant security classification level.
Information protection
This clause 16 applies where the Supplier is provided with or obtains through other means, TA Data in the course of providing the Services. 
The Supplier must not, and must ensure that its Personnel do not:
store or access TA Data at, or from, locations outside of Australia or any TA Data Permitted Country, or any locations other than the Sites, without the prior written consent of TA;
use TA Data for any purpose other than in connection with its supply of the Services;
purport to sell, let for hire, assign rights in or otherwise dispose of TA Data; and
alter TA Data in any way, other than to provide the Contracted Items in accordance with this Agreement.
The Supplier must:
ensure that all TA Data is signified as the property of TA and must not cause or have caused any pledge, lien, charge, mortgage, encumbrance of a third party or any other security interest to be placed on TA Data or any database (whether electronic or otherwise) in which such TA Data is stored; 
establish and maintain safeguards against the destruction, loss or alteration of TA Data in the possession, custody or control of the Supplier that comply with all Laws; and
maintain and back-up TA Data during the term of this Agreement in accordance with TA’s instructions, as applicable. The Supplier must perform any data restoration services forming part of the Services to meet or exceed the applicable Service Standards.  
The Supplier must ensure that any subcontract entered into for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement imposes on the approved subcontractor the same obligations that the Supplier has under this clause 16.
Upon request from TA, or otherwise pursuant to clause 28.1(c), the Supplier will return all TA Data to TA at no extra cost to TA in the manner and format reasonably required by TA.
Throughout the Term of the Agreement, the Supplier will regularly advise TA of any system, configuration or other requirements and instructions necessary for receipt and restoration of TA Data in the manner and format required pursuant to clause 16.5.
Notifiable Data Breach
If the Supplier suspects that there may have been an Eligible Data Breach in relation to any Personal Information held by the Supplier as a result of the Agreement, the Supplier must:
immediately report it to Tourism Australia and provide a written report within 3 Business Days; and 
carry out an assessment in accordance with the requirements of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth).  
Where the Supplier is aware that there has been an Eligible Data Breach in relation to the Agreement, the Supplier must: 
take all reasonable action to mitigate the risk of the Eligible Data Breach causing serious harm to any individual to whom the Personal Information relates;
take all other action necessary to comply with the requirements of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth); and 
take any other action as reasonably directed by Tourism Australia.
Confidential Information
The Supplier agrees not to disclose to any person, other than TA, any Confidential Information of TA other than in accordance with clause 18.2, without prior written approval from TA.
The Supplier may disclose Confidential Information of TA with its Personnel who have a need to know the information for the purposes of performing the Services, provided that the Supplier must ensure that its Personnel are aware of, and comply with, the obligations in this clause 18. The Supplier agrees, on request by TA, to arrange for its Personnel to give a written undertaking relating to nondisclosure of the TA’s Confidential Information in a form acceptable to TA. Inputting Confidential Information into, or disclosing to, any Artificial Intelligence System, will constitute disclosure for the purposes of this agreement.   
TA will keep any information in connection with the Agreement confidential to the extent it has agreed in writing with the Supplier to keep such specified information confidential.
TA will not be in breach of any confidentiality agreement if TA discloses Confidential Information of the Supplier to its Personnel in connection with this Agreement or related activities, within TA’s organisation or with another agency where this serves the Commonwealth’s legitimate interests, or if it is required to disclose the information by a Minister or a House or Committee of Parliament, or for accountability or reporting purposes.
The obligations in this clause 18 will not be breached where the relevant information:
is publicly available (other than through breach of a confidentiality or non disclosure obligation), or
is required to be disclosed by law, an order of a court or a stock exchange but in the case of disclosure by the Supplier, any such request must be reported by Notice to TA without delay and the text of the disclosure provided in writing to TA as soon as practicable.
The Supplier must return the Confidential Information to TA immediately on request or on the termination of this Agreement. The obligations of the Supplier under this clause survive the termination of the Agreement.
The Supplier acknowledges and must ensure that the Supplier's Personnel acknowledge that if the Supplier or its Personnel breach the obligations in clause 18, TA will suffer damage and an award of damages would be inadequate relief for a breach by the Supplier or its Personnel of the obligations in clause 18. The Supplier consents to TA obtaining an ex parte interlocutory injunction to restrain the Supplier or its Personnel from breaching the obligations in clause 18.
Nothing in this clause 18 derogates from any obligation which the Supplier may have either under the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) or under this Agreement in relation to the protection of personal information.
Work Health and Safety
The Supplier must ensure that the Services and the work conducted by the Supplier and any of the Supplier's Personnel complies with all applicable legislative requirements, standards and policies, and requirements of this Agreement, that relate to the health and safety of the Supplier, the Supplier's Personnel, TA's Personnel and third parties, along with TA’s workplace sexual harassment policies, complaints protocols and codes of conduct as notified to the Supplier from time to time.
The Supplier must comply with its obligations under any Applicable WHS Law, and must ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that its officers (as defined by Applicable WHS Law) and workers comply with their obligations under Applicable WHS Law. The other provisions of clause 19 do not limit this sub-clause.
The Supplier must ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health and safety of:
workers engaged, or caused to be engaged by the Supplier; and
workers whose activities in carrying out work are influenced or directed by the Supplier,
while the workers are at work in relation to this Agreement.  
The Supplier must ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the health and safety of other persons (including TA's Personnel) is not put at risk from work carried out under this Agreement.
The Supplier must consult, cooperate and coordinate with TA in relation to its work health and safety duties.  
Without limiting this Agreement, the Supplier must, on request, give all reasonable assistance to TA, by way of provision of information and documents, to assist TA and its officers (as defined in the WHS Act) to comply with the duties imposed under the WHS Act.
The Supplier must give all reasonable assistance to TA to assist TA in consulting with workers who carry out work for it (including, but not limited to, the Supplier's Personnel) who are, or are likely to be, directly affected by a matter relating to work health and safety.
TA may direct the Supplier to take specified measures in connection with the Supplier's work under this Agreement or otherwise in connection with the Services that TA considers reasonably necessary to deal with an event or circumstance that has, or is likely to have, an adverse effect on the health or safety of persons. The Supplier must comply with the direction. The Supplier is not entitled to an adjustment to the Fees, or to charge additional allowances or expenses, merely because of compliance with the direction.
If an event occurs in relation to the Supplier's work under this Agreement that leads, or could lead, to the death or, or an injury or illness to, a person (Notifiable Incident), the Supplier must: 
immediately report the matter to TA, including all relevant details that are known to the Supplier;
as soon as possible after the Notifiable Incident, investigate the Notifiable Incident to determine, as far as it can reasonably be done:
its cause; and
what adverse effects (if any) it will have on the Supplier's work under this Agreement, including adverse effects on risks to health and safety;
as soon as possible after the Notifiable Incident, take all reasonable steps to remedy any effects of the Notifiable Incident on health and safety;
as soon as possible after the Notifiable Incident, take all reasonable steps (including by instituting procedures and systems) to ensure that an event or circumstance of the kind that led to the Notifiable Incident does not recur;
within 3 Business Days after the Notifiable Incident, give TA a written report giving further details of the Notifiable Incident, including the results of the investigations required by clause 19.9(b) and a statement of the steps the Supplier has taken or that the Supplier proposes to take as required by clauses 19.9(c) and (d); and
within 3 months after the Notifiable Incident, give TA a written report giving full details of its actions in relation to the Notifiable Incident.
The Supplier’s obligations under this clause 19.9 are in addition to any reporting obligation that the Supplier has under a written Law.
The Supplier must fully co-operate, at its own cost, with any investigation by any government agency (including the Commonwealth) with respect to a Notifiable Incident, including parliamentary inquiries, boards of inquiry and coroner’s investigations.
The Supplier must not enter into any subcontract for the purpose of directly or indirectly fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement unless such a subcontract obliges the subcontractor to comply with equivalent provisions to those contained in this clause 19.
A word or expression in this clause 19 that is:
used or defined in an Applicable WHS Law; and
is not otherwise defined in this clause 19 or elsewhere in this Agreement,
has, for the purposes of this clause 19, the meaning given to it under the Applicable WHS Law.
Modern Slavery 
The Supplier must take reasonable steps to identify, assess and address risks of Modern Slavery practices in the operations and supply chains used in the provision of the Services. 
The Supplier will ensure Personnel responsible for managing the operations and supply chains used in the performance of the Agreement have undertaken suitable training to be able to identify and report Modern Slavery. 
Within one month of the Commencement Date, the Supplier will prepare and implement a plan for Modern Slavery risk management in relation to its performance of this Agreement  (Modern Slavery Risk Management Plan) and, if requested by TA, provide a copy of this plan to TA. The Modern Slavery Risk Management Plan should at a minimum detail:
the Supplier’s steps to identify and assess risks of Modern Slavery practices in the operations and supply chains used in the performance of the Agreement;
the Supplier’s processes for addressing any Modern Slavery practices of which it becomes aware in the operations and supply chains used in the performance of the Agreement; 
the content and timing of training for Personnel about Modern Slavery; and
the Grievance Mechanism/s available to Personnel.
The Supplier must comply with the Modern Slavery Risk Management Plan in its performance of this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this clause derogates from the Supplier’s other obligations arising under this Agreement or otherwise in relation to the provision of the Services.
If at any time the Supplier becomes aware of Modern Slavery practices in the operations and supply chains used in the performance of the Agreement, the Supplier must as soon as reasonably practicable:
take all reasonable action to address or remove these practices, including where relevant by addressing any practices of other entities in its supply chains; and 
take all reasonable steps to remediate any adverse impacts caused or contributed to by the Supplier from these practices in accordance with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Without limiting clause 20.5, in performing the Agreement, the Supplier must:
not require Personnel to pay fees, charges, expenses or financial obligations incurred in order for the Personnel to secure their employment or placement, regardless of the manner, timing or location of the imposition or collection of these recruitment fees;
not destroy or exclusively possess, whether permanently or otherwise, the travel or identity documents of Personnel; and
ensure Personnel can access a Grievance Mechanism to safely report any instances of Modern Slavery in the operations and supply chains used by the Supplier in its performance of this Agreement.
Sustainability
Where the Supplier’s activities are owned, managed or affiliated with TA, the Supplier must comply with the ‘Animal Welfare Policy’ of TA as notified from time to time by TA to the Supplier. TA can also request, and the Supplier must provide information about its sustainability policies.
A failure by the Supplier to comply with its obligations under this clause 21 will be a material breach of the Agreement. TA's rights under this clause 21 are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights TA may have under the Agreement. The performance by the Supplier of its obligations under this clause 21 will be at no additional cost to TA.
Compliance with Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption
The Supplier understands that TA is committed to strict compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws and represents and warrants that:
it is in compliance with all anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism, anti-bribery or anti-corruption Laws of Australia or any other jurisdiction by which the Supplier or TA is bound (Anti-Corruption Laws), and will remain in compliance with the Anti-Corruption Laws; and
it will not authorise, offer or make payments directly or indirectly to any Australian Government official or third party that would result in a violation of any applicable Anti-Corruption Law; and no part of the payment received by it from TA will be used for any purpose that could constitute a violation of any applicable Anti-Corruption Laws. 
Notwithstanding any other provisions to the contrary, TA may withhold payments under the Agreement and/or suspend or terminate the Agreement, without liability and without notice or at any time upon forming a reasonable belief that the Supplier may have violated, or may have caused Tourism Australia to violate, any applicable Anti-Corruption Laws. 
The Supplier understands that the National Anti-Corruption Commission (NACC) which is established by the National Anti‑Corruption Commission Act 2022 (Cth) has powers to investigate and report on serious or systemic corrupt conduct affecting the federal public sector. If the NACC commences an investigation of TA, or its officers, directors or employees, the NACC may compel the production of documents and oral evidence and override protections for privilege (including legal professional privilege and the privilege against self-incrimination). The Supplier represents and warrants it will comply with all relevant directions from the NACC in relation to any investigations of TA, its officers, directors and employees.  
Compliance with other Laws
The Supplier agrees, in carrying out this Agreement, to comply with all legislation of the Commonwealth or of any State, Territory or local authority, and in particular:
the Crimes Act 1914 (Cth);
the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth);
the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth);
the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Cth); and
the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Act 1999 (Cth) (EOWW Act).
The Supplier must not enter into a subcontract under this Agreement with a subcontractor named by the Director of the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency as an employer currently not complying with the EOWW Act.
The Supplier must:
ensure that all Contracted Items comply with applicable Laws; and
not perform any of its obligations in a way that causes TA to contravene any Law.
Compliance with the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct 
The Supplier must comply with, and ensure that it’s officers, employees, agents and Subcontractors comply with, the Code in connection with the performance of this Agreement.
The Supplier must: 
periodically monitor and assess its, and its officers’, employees, and agents compliance with the Code; and
on request from TA promptly provide information regarding:
the policies, frameworks or systems it has established to monitor and assess compliance with the Code; and 
the Supplier’s compliance with clause 24.1.
The Supplier must immediately issue TA a Notice on becoming aware of any breach of clause  24.1. The Notice must include a summary of the breach, the date that the breach occurred, and details of the personnel involved.
Where TA identifies a possible breach of clause 24.1 it may issue the Supplier a Notice, and the Supplier must, within 3 Business Days of receiving the Notice, either: 
where the Supplier considers a breach has not occurred: advise TA that there has not been a breach and provide information supporting that determination; or 
where the Supplier considers that a breach has occurred: issue a Notice under clause 24.3 and otherwise comply with its obligations under this clause 24. 
Notwithstanding clause 24.4(b), TA may notify the Supplier in writing that it considers that the Supplier has breached clause 24.1, in which case the Supplier must issue a Notice under clause 24.3 and otherwise comply with its obligations under this clause 24.
A failure by the Supplier to comply with its obligations under any part of this clause will be a material breach of the Agreement. 
Nothing in this clause or the Code limits, reduces or derogates from the Supplier’s other obligations under the Agreement. TA’s rights under this clause are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights TA may have under the Agreement. The performance by the Supplier of its obligations under this clause will be at no additional cost to TA.
The Supplier agrees that TA or any other Commonwealth agency may take into account the Supplier’s compliance with the Code in any future approach to market or procurement process.
Notification of Significant Events 
The Supplier must immediately issue TA a Notice on becoming aware of a Significant Event.
The Notice issued under clause 25.1 must provide a summary of the Significant Event, including the date that it occurred and whether any Specified Personnel or other personnel engaged in connection with the goods and/or Services were involved.
TA may notify the Supplier in writing that an event is to be considered a Significant Event for the purposes of this clause, and where this occurs the Supplier must issue a Notice under clause 25.1  in relation to the event within 3 Business Days of being notified by TA..
Where reasonably requested by TA, the Supplier must provide TA with any additional information regarding the Significant Event within 3 Business Days of the request.
If requested by TA, the Supplier must prepare a draft remediation plan and submit that draft plan to TA’s Contact for approval within 10 Business Days of the request
A draft remediation plan prepared by the Supplier under clause 25.5 must include the following information: 
how the Supplier will address the Significant Event in the context of the goods and/or Services, including confirmation that the implementation of the remediation plan will not in any way impact on the delivery of the goods and/or Services or compliance by the Supplier with its other obligations under the Agreement, and 
how the Supplier will ensure events similar to the Significant Event do not occur again, and 
any other matter reasonably requested by TA. 
TA will review the draft remediation plan and either approve the draft remediation plan or provide the Supplier with the details of any changes that are required. The Supplier must make any changes to the draft remediation plan reasonably requested by TA and resubmit the draft remediation plan to TA for approval within 3 Business Days of the request unless a different timeframe is agreed in writing by TA. This clause 25.7 will apply to any resubmitted draft remediation plan.
Without limiting its other obligations under the Agreement, the Supplier must comply with the remediation plan as approved by TA. The Supplier agrees to provide reports and other information about the Supplier’s progress in implementing the remediation plan as reasonably requested by TA.
A failure by the Supplier to comply with its obligations under this clause 25 will be a material breach of the Agreement. TA’s rights under this clause 25 are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights TA may have under the Agreement. The performance by the Supplier of its obligations under this clause 25 will be at no additional cost to TA. 
Default and termination
If the Supplier fails to satisfy any of its obligations under this Agreement, TA may:
immediately by notice in writing terminate this Agreement if it considers that the breach of the Supplier's obligation is not capable of remedy; or
if it considers that the failure is capable of remedy, by notice require that the failure be remedied within 7 Business Days or such other time specified in the notice and, if not remedied within that time, may terminate this Agreement immediately by giving a second notice,
and TA may recover from the Supplier any loss or damage suffered by TA.
TA may also by notice terminate this Agreement immediately (but without prejudice to any prior right of action or remedy which TA has or may have) if an Insolvency Event occurs in relation to the Supplier except to the extent the right to terminate is stayed by sections 415D, 434J or 451E of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Termination for convenience and reduction in scope
TA may at any time and at is discretion terminate this Agreement or reduce the scope of the Services by giving 30 Business Days written notice to the Supplier. Upon receipt of a notice under this clause, the Supplier must: 
as soon as practicable cease providing the Services as specified in the notice; and
continue work on any part of the Services not affected by the notice.
The Supplier acknowledges and agrees that, except as provided for in clauses 27.3, the Supplier is not entitled to any damages or compensation arising out of the termination of this Agreement by TA pursuant to this clause.
In the event that this Agreement is terminated under clause 27.1, TA will:
pay to the Supplier a proportion of the Fees representing that portion of the Services that have been duly completed; and
reimburse any expenses the Supplier unavoidably incurs relating entirely to Services not covered under clause 27.3(a).
TA shall not be liable to pay under the provisions of this clause any sum which, additional to any sums paid or due to or becoming due to the Supplier under the Agreement, would together exceed the full price of the Services ordinarily payable under this Agreement.
In the event of a reduction in the scope of the Services under clause 27.1, TA's liability to pay Fees and any other allowances or costs under this Agreement will, unless there is agreement in writing to the contrary, reduce proportionately with the reduction in the Services.
Return or destruction of TA Data 
On termination or expiry of this Agreement or any part of it, the Supplier must:
cease using all TA Data (or, in the case of partial termination or expiry, any part of the TA Data that relates solely to the terminated or expired part of the Agreement); 
promptly deliver to TA that TA Data in accordance with clause 16.5; and
if requested by TA, securely destroy any copies of that TA Data in the Supplier's possession or control (or in the possession or control of the Supplier's Personnel) following TA's receipt of that TA Data. 
The Supplier will provide TA with written confirmation that no TA Data, or any part thereof, has been retained or destroyed by the Supplier without the express written consent of TA. If requested by TA, the Supplier will provide proof of secure destruction of TA Data pursuant to this clause 28.
Recovery of overpayments
Where, prior to the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement or any reduction in scope pursuant to clause 27, TA has made any initial or advance payment to the Supplier, and any amount of such payment has not been expended in provision of the Services in accordance with this Agreement, then the Supplier must repay such amount to TA within 7 days of the date of such expiration or earlier termination or reduction in scope, and if that amount remains unpaid after that date, the amount shall be a debt due by the Supplier to TA and may be:
set off against any other amount due to the Supplier under this or any other Agreement between TA and the Supplier, or
recovered from the Supplier by TA in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Supplier indemnity
The Supplier at all times indemnifies TA and its Personnel (Indemnified Persons) and, holds the Indemnified Persons harmless from and against the full amount of any Loss (including any indirect or consequential loss, legal costs, expenses and damages) or liability incurred by Indemnified Persons, arising out of or in connection with:
the Supplier's breach of any provision of this Agreement; 
a contravention of Law:
by the Supplier or any of its Personnel; or
by TA as a result of an act or omission of the Supplier or any of its Personnel;
a Claim by a third party (whether or not that Claim is against TA or another person) relating to:
the Contracted Items s; or
an act or omission of the Supplier or its Personnel in connection with the Agreement, whether negligent, fraudulent or not;
the Supplier's breach of its confidentiality obligations;
any claim or action against an Indemnified Person that the receipt of the Services (including through the use of the Contract Materials and/or output of the Services) by TA infringes the rights (which may include the Intellectual Property Rights) of any third party; and/or 
any willful misconduct, fraudulent, unlawful or negligent act or conduct, or omission of the Supplier in connection with this Agreement. 
The Supplier's liability to indemnify TA under clause 30.1 will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent or unlawful act or omission of TA contributed to the relevant Loss.
Limitation on TA’s liability
Notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement and to the fullest extent permitted by Law:
TA is not liable, whether such liability is based on breach of contract, tort (including negligence), statute or otherwise for any special, indirect or Consequential Loss, indirect, incidental, punitive or special Losses of any kind (including loss of profits, opportunities, use or goodwill loss of opportunities or business interruption); and 
TA's maximum aggregate liability in connection with this Agreement will not exceed the Maximum Aggregate Fee Amount specified in Schedule 1.
Insurance
Insurance cover 
The Supplier must at its cost, take out and maintain for the Term:
public liability insurance written on an occurrence basis for an insured amount of not less than the Public Liability Insurance Amount per occurrence which covers the liability of the Supplier, and Personnel (including to TA) in respect of:
loss of, damage to, or loss of use of, any real or personal property; and
the personal injury of, disease or illness (including mental illness) to, or death of, any person (other than an employee of the insured),
arising out of the performance of the Services or the performance of this Agreement.  The insurance must include cover for TA's property in the care, custody or control of the Supplier with a sub-limit acceptable to TA;
professional indemnity or 'errors and omissions' insurance for an insured amount of not less than the Professional Indemnity Insurance Amount for each claim and in the aggregate any 12 month policy period, with one automatic right of reinstatement, which covers the liability of the Supplier arising from a breach of duty owed in a professional capacity or an error or omission in judgement by reason of any act or omission of the Supplier or the Supplier's Personnel.  The professional indemnity or 'errors and omissions' insurance must include cover for unintentional breaches of intellectual property and of trade practices related legislation; 
workers compensation as required by Law; and
the Additional Insurance Policies (if any) or any other insurance policies TA may otherwise reasonably require,
on terms acceptable to TA. In the case of professional indemnity insurance, the Supplier must also maintain this insurance for Professional Indemnity Insurance Period.
Insurance requirements
The Supplier must ensure that each insurance policy required to be taken out by it under the Agreement: 
is taken out with an insurer with a Standard & Poor’s financial strength rating of A or higher (or an equivalent, for example, AM Best’s “A”); and
complies with the Laws of the relevant jurisdictions in which the Supplier’s obligations are to be performed.
Evidence of insurances
The Supplier must, upon TA’s request, in respect of each insurance referred to in this clause 32 give TA:
acceptable proof of currency and coverage of the insurances before the commencement of this Agreement;
copies of all cover notes, certificates of currency, renewal certificates and endorsement slips, as soon as the Supplier receives them; and
other evidence of the insurances which TA reasonably requires, including a copy of the policies.
Compliance with policy
The Supplier must:
comply with all of the terms and conditions of any insurance policy taken out by it under this clause, including by punctually paying all premiums, commissions, stamp duties, charges, taxes and other expenses necessary for effecting and maintaining in force each such insurance policy; 
not do or omit to do anything which may prejudice any insurance policy taken out by the Supplier under this clause;
reinstate an insurance policy if it lapses and not cancel, vary or allow an insurance policy to lapse without the prior written consent of TA;
immediately notify TA of any event which may result in an insurance policy lapsing or being cancelled; and
takes all reasonable steps to avoid and mitigate losses or liabilities otherwise insured under the policies.
If the Supplier fails to satisfy any of its obligations under clause 32.1, after TA gives notice of the failure to the Supplier and the Supplier has had a reasonable opportunity (in the opinion of TA) to cure the failure, TA may effect and maintain (and the Supplier must provide all reasonable assistance and information to allow TA to effect and maintain) such insurance policies and pay the premiums as necessary and, in relation to insurances required by clause 32.1, and recover the amount from the Supplier.
Nothing in this clause prevents TA from taking out insurance and exercising its rights under clause 32.6 without notice to the Supplier if TA becomes aware that an insurance policy required under clause 32.1 has lapsed, or will soon lapse.
Conflict of interest
The Supplier warrants at the date of this Agreement and continues to warrant during the Term that no Conflict of Interest exists or is likely to arise in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement that has not been disclosed and consented to by TA in writing.
The Supplier must use best endeavours to ensure that a situation does not arise which may result in a Conflict of Interest.  The Supplier must not engage in any activity, subject to clause 33.3, that may result in a Conflict of Interest arising or continuing.
Where a Conflict of Interest arises or is likely to arise in the performance of the Supplier's obligations under this Agreement, the Supplier must immediately notify TA in writing and must follow all reasonable directions from TA to resolve or otherwise deal with the conflict.
Subcontracting
The Supplier must not subcontract the whole, or any part of the Services except:
with the prior written consent of TA; and
on such conditions as TA in its absolute discretion thinks fit.
TA may revoke its consent to a subcontractor on reasonable grounds at any time, without obtaining the Supplier's agreement to an amendment to this Agreement.
Despite any consent given by TA, the Supplier:
must ensure the work performed by any subcontractor meets the requirements of this Agreement in full;
is liable to TA for the acts or omissions (including negligent acts or omissions) of that subcontractor as if they were the acts or omissions of the Supplier;
must ensure that the subcontractor is immediately terminable if this Agreement is terminated; and
must ensure that the subcontract entered into contains clauses which impose obligations on the subcontractor and grants rights the same as the obligations imposed on and the rights granted by the Supplier in relation to:
Intellectual Property Rights;
Confidential Information;
privacy;
audit;
an indemnity;
compliance with legislation;
termination;
subcontracting;
assignment;
conflict of interest; or
resolution of disputes.
Child Safety 
If any part of the Services involves a party employing or engaging a person (whether as Personnel, or as a volunteer) who is required by applicable Law to have a ‘working with children check’ to undertake any part of the Services, each party must:
comply with all applicable Law relating to the employment or engagement of people who work or volunteer with children in relation to the Services, including mandatory reporting and working with children checks; and
if requested by the other party, provide an annual statement of compliance with this clause, in the form specified by the requesting party at the requesting party’s cost.
When child safety obligations may be relevant to a subcontract, the Supplier must ensure that any subcontract entered into by it for the purposes of fulfilling its obligations under the Agreement imposes on the subcontractor the same obligations regarding child safety that the Supplier has under this Agreement (including this requirement in relation to subcontracts).
Variations 
Either party may propose a change to the agreement or to any of the Services (Change) by submitting a notice to the other party describing the proposed Change in enough detail to enable initial consideration of the impact of that Change (Change Notice).  A Change Notice must state that it is a Change Notice under this clause.
A Change will be a Material Change if it will or is likely to have a material impact on:
the provision or receipt of the Services;
either party’s reasonable commercial expectations under the Agreement; or
the costs or expenses incurred by either party under or in connection with the Agreement.
A Change that is not a Material Change will be a Minor Change and a Minor Change will take effect when agreed in writing between authorised representatives of the parties. 
If the Change is a Material Change then, Supplier will provide a proposal to TA (Change Proposal) that may set out:
details of the activities required to implement the proposed Change including any specifications, special conditions and any amendments to the agreement required as a result of the proposed Change; 
revised deliverables and timeframes;
a statement of the estimated cost of implementing the Change and any variations to the fees; and
the impact, if any, of the Change on the charges and Supplier’s ability to deliver Services or achieve any Service Standards.
The relevant Change will take effect when TA notifies Supplier that TA accepts the Change Proposal and unless that occurs, the parties will continue to perform their respective obligations under the agreement as if the Change had not been proposed.
Each party will prepare and review Change Notices and Change Proposals, at its own cost and expense.
Disputes
A party claiming that a dispute has arisen must give written notice (Dispute Notice) to the other party setting out the nature of the dispute and all information relevant to the dispute, within 10 Business Days of becoming aware of the grounds for the dispute.
Within 5 Business Days of recipe of a Dispute Notice, the receiving party must respond outlining a proposed solution. At all times the parties must negotiate in good faith to resolve the dispute.
The parties must continue to perform their obligations under this Agreement during the period in which any dispute is being resolved under clause 36.2.
Subject to clause 36.5 each party will not initiate any action in court or take any other action in respect of a dispute until the parties have reasonably sought to resolve the dispute in accordance with clause 36.2 and no sooner than 30 Business Days from notification of the dispute.
Nothing in this clause 35 prevents a party from:
seeking urgent interlocutory relief from an appropriate court; or
undertaking action under or purportedly under any clause relating to termination or reduction in scope.
Public Interest Disclosures
The Supplier must familiarise itself with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013 (Cth) and acknowledges that public officials, including service providers and their subcontractors under a Commonwealth contract, who suspect wrongdoing within the Commonwealth public sector may raise their concerns under the Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013 (Cth). Information for disclosers is available at https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/Our-responsibilities/making-adisclosure.
Assignment
TA may dispose of, declare a trust over, or otherwise create an interest in its rights under this Agreement without the consent of the Supplier, and may disclose to any potential holder of the right or interest any information relating to this Agreement or any party to it.
The Supplier cannot assign, encumber, declare a trust over or otherwise create an interest in its rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of TA.
The Supplier must not consult with any other person or body for the purpose of entering into an agreement which will require novation of the Agreement, without first consulting TA.
Audit and access
The Supplier must keep adequate accounts, documents and records in sufficient detail to allow TA to determine the Supplier's compliance with the Agreement and the accuracy of its Invoices.
The Supplier agrees:
TA may conduct audits from time to time to confirm the Supplier's compliance with the Agreement and to enable TA to meet applicable contractual, regulatory and internal management requirements;
to give TA, its Personnel (including internal and external auditors and advisors), or any persons authorised in writing by TA, full access at all reasonable times to the Supplier's Personnel, premises, books, records, documents, information, computer systems, equipment and other property, and data in the possession or control of the Supplier or any Supplier Personnel (other than any data or information containing the Supplier or its subcontractor's costs and margins or of a financially sensitive nature), for the purposes of obtaining information in relation to the Agreement; and
to permit those persons to inspect and take copies of any material relevant to the Agreement.
The rights referred to in clause 39.1 are subject to:
TA providing reasonable prior notice;
TA and its Personnel complying with the Supplier's reasonable security procedures; and
if appropriate, execution of a deed of confidentiality relating to non-disclosure of the Supplier's Confidential Information.
For the purpose of complying with this clause 39, the Supplier must promptly and efficiently give TA and its Personnel any assistance they reasonably require.
Without in any way affecting the statutory powers of the Auditor-General under the Auditor-General Act 1997 (Cth), and subject to the provisions of that Act, the Auditor-General is a person authorised for the purposes of this clause 39.
Notice
Any notice under this Agreement must be given in writing and be addressed as set out in the Schedule.
Any notice given under clause 40.1 is deemed to have been received:
if delivered personally - on the actual date of delivery if delivered before 5:00pm on a Business Day to either party's address specified herein, or on the Business Day following the actual date of delivery if delivered after 5:00pm on a Business Day or on a non-Business Day to either party’s address specified herein;
if sent by domestic mail - on the third Business Day after posting, or if sent by international mail – on the seventh Business Day after posting; or
by email - if it is transmitted by 5.00 pm (Sydney time) on a Business Day – on that Business Day; or if it is transmitted after 5.00 pm (Sydney time) on the Business Day, or on a day that is not a Business Day – on the next Business Day.
Force majeure
If the Supplier is wholly or partially unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement because of a Force Majeure Event then: 
as soon as reasonably practicable (and in any event no later than 10 days) after the Force Majeure Event arises, the Supplier must notify TA and advise:
the full particulars of the Force Majeure Event;
an estimate of its likely duration;
the obligations affected by it and the extent to which the Supplier is unable to perform those obligations;
the steps taken to rectify it; and
the Supplier's obligations under this Agreement will be suspended to the extent to which they are affected by the relevant Force Majeure Event as long as the Force Majeure Event continues. 
The Supplier must use its best endeavours to remove, overcome or minimise the effects of that Force Majeure Event as quickly as possible.  However, this does not require the Supplier to settle any industrial dispute in any way it does not want to.
If a delay by the Supplier arising directly out of a Force Majeure Event exceeds 30 days, TA may immediately terminate the Agreement on providing written notice to the Supplier and clause 27 will apply as though the Agreement were terminated pursuant to that clause.
Waiver
A failure or delay by a party to exercise any right or remedy it holds under this Agreement or at Law does not operate as a waiver of that right.
A single or partial exercise by a party of any right or remedy it holds under this Agreement or at Law does not prevent the party from exercising that right again or to the extent it has not fully exercised that right.
Survival
Unless the contrary intention appears, the expiry or earlier termination of this Agreement will not affect the operation of any provision relating to:
Intellectual Property Rights;
Confidential Information;
Privacy;
Audit;
Compliance with other Laws;
Representations made by the Supplier;
an indemnity; or
any other provision which expressly or by implication from its nature is intended to continue.
General
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement.
This Agreement may not be amended or varied unless the amendment or variation is in writing and signed by all parties 
This Agreement is governed by, and constructed in accordance with the Laws of New South Wales, Australia. The parties submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of New South Wales, Australia.
This Agreement constitutes and contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the Services, and supersedes, any prior or contemporaneous agreements, oral or written. There are no promises, terms, condition or obligations, oral or written, expressed or implied, other than those contained herein.
In the event of any inconsistency between the English language version of this Agreement and any other language translation, the English language drafting shall take precedence.
Schedule 2 : Sample Moral Rights Consent Form
DATE:
I, ______________________________, [position], at [company], of [address] unconditionally and irrevocably, to the extent permitted by Law:
consent to any acts or omissions (that may occur before or after this consent is given), that would otherwise infringe my Moral Rights in the Works created by me [in the course of my employment with] / [in the provision of the Services to] [company], including:
any alteration to or deletion from the Works;
any use of the Works that does not identify me as the author of the Works;
any use of the Works that may falsely attribute authorship of the Works to any other person;
waive all Moral Rights I might hold outside of Australia, in the Works created by me [in the course of my employment with] / [in the provision of the Services to] [company],
for the benefit of Tourism Australia ABN 99 657 548 712, its licensees, successors in title and anyone authorised by Tourism Australia to do any acts comprised in the copyright throughout the world.
In this deed:
"Moral Rights" means rights of integrity of authorship, rights of attribution of authorship, rights not to have authorship falsely attributed, and rights of a similar nature conferred by statute, that exist, or that may come to exist, anywhere in the world in the Works and includes Performers' Moral Rights.
"Performers' Moral Rights" means rights of integrity of performership, rights of attribution of performership, rights not to have performership falsely attributed, and rights of a similar nature conferred by statute, that exist, or that may come to exist, anywhere in the world in relation to the Works.
"Services" means [insert description of services performed].
"Works" means any copyright work created, produced or reproduced by me, specifically relating to the [provide brief description of works created].
Execution 
Executed as an agreement 



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: PRO-TENCM-Attachment 1 Tender Response Schedule-PROCFY26078.docx
============================================================

ATTACHMENT 1
TENDER RESPONSE SCHEDULE
Overview
Responding to this Request for Tender
In responding to this opportunity, tenderers must lodge a structured response in line with this response schedule.
The key sections are summarised in the table below:
Tenderer’s Details
Corporate Profile
Tenderers must complete the following table:
Legal and Operational Capacity (North America)
As a mandatory Condition for Participation, the successful supplier must demonstrate a legitimate, legally compliant operational presence in the target (United States of America).
Subcontractors and Offshore Arrangements
Tenderers must provide transparent disclosure of all intended third-party or offshore subcontracting arrangements, specifically detailing the precise scope of tasks to be outsourced.
Client References
Please provide details for three (3) referees who can attest to your firm's capability and experience in delivering services similar in nature and complexity to the requirements outlined in this tender. Referees must be from external client organizations; Tourism Australia employees are not permitted to be cited as referees.
Conflicts of Interest
Tenderers must must disclose any relevant conflicts of interest, actual, potential, or perceived, that may impact the delivery of the services or the commercial interests of Tourism Australia. As a mandatory Condition for Participation, tenderers must explicitly detail any current or recently concluded engagements with competing national tourism organisations (e.g., Tourism New Zealand, Destination Canada), Australian State and Territory tourism bodies, or other relevant regional tourism entities.
Copy and paste the fields for additional conflicts as required. If no conflicts exist, please state "Nil to declare".
Modern Slavery and Ethical Employment
Modern Slavery Risk Management 
As a mandatory Condition for Participation, tenderers must demonstrate an active commitment to identifying, assessing, and addressing modern slavery risks within their operations and multi-tier supply chains. Tenderers must complete TA’s Modern Slavery Questionnaire via the provided link.
Compliance with Draft Contract
Instructions for your Compliance with Draft Contract Statement
Tenderers are required required to review the Draft Contract provided at Attachment 3 and formally state their level of compliance. Please follow the instructions below to complete this section:
Full Compliance: If you are fully compliant with all terms and conditions of the Draft Contract, delete the example rows in the template below and input “Fully Compliant”.
Partial or Non-Compliance: If you propose to negotiate, or cannot comply with specific clauses, you must list each relevant clause in the table below, providing a clear rationale for the departure and your proposed alternative wording.
Tracked Changes Requirement: In addition to completing the table below, you must submit a copy of the Draft Contract with tracked changes (mark-ups) reflecting all proposed amendments.
Legal Review: Please note that any proposed changes will undergo a formal legal review as part of the evaluation process to assess their impact on risk and Value for Money.
Confidentiality
If relevant, tenderers must identify any provisions of the draft contract that should be kept confidential and detail reasons why.
Tenderer’s Declaration
Tenderer’s Declaration
Tenderers must complete the following declaration when submitting their proposals to TA.
In accordance with section 3 of this RFT I, [NAME, ADDRESS AND OCCUPATION OF PERSON MAKING THE DECLARATION], on behalf of the Respondent, acknowledge that, by lodging this response, each of the acknowledgements, including all the conditions in this RFT and Response Schedule, have been read and understood. The Respondent will comply with them as and when they are applicable. 
I understand that I should seek my own independent legal and other professional advice on the implications of submitting a response and on otherwise entering into a binding contract with Tourism Australia on terms that may be similar to the proposed contract attached or on terms as they are yet to be negotiated. 
I, on behalf of the Respondent, also make the following declarations:
That I have the requisite power and the authority to sign for and on behalf of the Respondent; and
Confirm that the Respondent has read and complies with the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct ; and
That the Respondent is financially solvent and not in the process of administration or of being wound up and is not otherwise seeking to have either of these processes applied following the date of this declaration; and
That the Respondent is not bankrupt and not currently in the process of initiating or seeking to initiate bankruptcy proceedings; and
That there are currently no unsettled judicial orders that have been made against the Respondent—and to the best of the Respondent’s knowledge, any proposed subcontractors—that relate either to employee entitlements or to any matter with regards to the Work Health and Safety Act 2011; and
That the Respondent has not been listed as a non-complying entity by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency as a result of having failed to comply with the annual requirement to report on gender equality pursuant to the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012; and
That the Respondent understands and is willing to cooperate with Tourism Australia’s public disclosure requirements; and
That the Respondent is willing to cooperate with Tourism Australia’s public accountability requirements under the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 (Cth), including, where relevant, to its Supplier Code of Conduct, Fraud and Corruption Policy, and Public Interest Disclosure Policy; and
That the Respondent has the capacity and resources required to supply the services/goods described in this response without restriction; and
That the Respondent currently has all insurances requested as they may be described in this response documentation and where the Respondent does not hold the requisite insurance, undertakes to obtain it as a condition of any contract entered into with Tourism Australia for goods and/or services covered by this RFT; and
That the Respondent has the necessary qualifications and registrations required to supply for goods and/or services covered by this RFT; and
That the information in this document is both true and accurate. The Respondent understands that giving false or misleading information to a Commonwealth entity is a serious offence under section 137.1 of the schedule to the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth). Accordingly, the Respondent agrees to ensure that any subcontractor engage in connection with any contract with Tourism Australia is also aware that this is an offence; and
That the Respondent has not prepared this submission using any information acquired through a breach of any duty of confidentiality owed me; and
That the Respondent has not attempted to, and will not attempt to, improperly influence an officer of the Commonwealth in connection with the preparation or assessment of my response to the RFT; and
That no conflict of interest exists, or is likely to arise, other than those indicated, that would affect the performance of my obligations, including the Respondent’s obligations if it was to enter into a contract with Tourism Australia; and
That the details of this response, including any Commonwealth confidential information or personal information provided to the Respondent for the purpose of enabling the preparation of this response, will not be disclosed or improperly used; and
That, if at any time following the declarations made above and prior to entry into a contract with Tourism Australia, anything changes that would otherwise make any part of the declarations incorrect, the Respondent will advise Tourism Australia of that change within seven (7) calendar days of becoming aware of the change.
That the Respondent warrants that all personnel, including key project resources and third-party contractors, will be provided with fair and ethical working conditions in absolute compliance with all relevant local labour and workplace health and safety laws in the North American jurisdictions of delivery; and
That the Respondent agrees, if shortlisted, to undergo an external financial viability assessment conducted by Tourism Australia or its nominated third-party financial advisors prior to any contract award.
If tenderers are unable to make any of the above declarations, they must immediately notify the Contact Officer.



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: PRO-TENCM-Clarification Questions Addendum v2-PROCFY26078.pdf
============================================================

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Addendum Notice [2] 
Project Ref #PROCFY26078 
 
Communications as of 7 August 2026: 
 
Q#. 
QUESTION 
ANSWER 
1.  
Regarding the Scope of Requirements for a "highly 
experienced EMC with a proven, verifiable history 
of delivering high-profile, complex B2B and luxury 
trade events within the North American market": If 
a tenderer possesses extensive global experience 
delivering large-scale tradeshows, but their specific 
North American experience is primarily in 
delivering complex conferences and incentive 
programmes, will this satisfy the requirement? 
The tenderer experience as described would 
meet TA's requirements for this RFT. 
2.  
Scope of Requirements - Does this RFP go to 
North American based EMCs? 
The RFT has been advertised to North American 
EMCs.  
3.  
Scope of Requirements - From 2022 onwards, 
has TA ever used an Australian based EMC to 
help produce any Australia Marketplace North 
America events? 
The question is outside the scope of the RFT 
procurement. 
4.  
Australia Marketplace North America 
(September 2027 and September 2029) - Is 
there any available breakdown for 
accommodation of single vs shared vs twin 
rooms? Is there a reason for a total of 250 
delegates but only 225 rooms requested? 
No specific breakdown of room options. Total 
room requirement is set to cover anticipated 
accommodation needs based on prior 
Marketplace events.     

Addendum Notice [2] – Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 2 of 3 
5.  
Australia Marketplace North America 
(September 2027 and September 2029) - For 
the destination for 2029, are you just after a 
destination recommendation or do you require 
three hotel options within the destination, as per 
2027? 
The listing of three venue options is required for 
AMNA 2027 only. For AMNA 2029, only an outline 
of how the tenderer would approach sourcing for 
the undetermined US destination is required.  
6.  
Australia Marketplace North America 
(September 2027 and September 2029) - Is the 
prospectus for the Gold Sponsor (USD $20K to 
$30K) a per year amount for 2027 and 2029?  
The prospectus amount for the Gold Sponsor is 
for the 2027 AMNA event only. 
7.  
Signature Experience Luxury Showcase 
(January to June 2028) - Are we to suggest the 
two other cities apart from NYC that we 
recommend for this roadshow? 
Only the New York venue submission is required 
for evaluation. Tenderers can suggest additional 
city locations as part of their overall submission.  
8.  
Signature Experience Luxury Showcase 
(January to June 2028) - Can you give some 
indication of timings, e.g one city every 2 months 
between January and June, or are timings open 
to our interpretation?  
The Luxury showcase events will be held 
consecutively over an approximately 2-week 
period. The timing for when the NYC event is held 
within the Jan-June 2029 timeframe is at the 
tenderer's recommendation. 
9.  
Signature Experience Luxury Showcase 
(January to June 2028) - Are we required to 
manage freight services from city to city of all 
event collateral?  
Yes. Based on previous Luxury showcases, 
though, there have been minimal freight 
shipment requirements and generally limited to 
signage, small decor items, and collateral. 
10.  
Signature Experience Luxury Showcase 
(January to June 2028) - Are we to manage 
flights for TA hosts to each city? 
No. 
11.  
Business Events Australia North American 
Showcase (July 2028) - If we are to suggest the 
city for this event, the brief is very broad - 
Propose a strategic program format, ideal event 
dates, recommended city location, and a 
specific venue that best serves the target 
audience. – We know the target audience are 
corporate and incentive buyers, but what type? 
Luxury? Groups? Leisure travel? Executive 
travel? Study trips? 
The target audience will be North America based 
incentive buyers. We will be targeting 3rd party 
meeting planners who represent incentive 
houses and independent companies booking 
incentive programs. Some of these planners will 
be booking executive trips and larger groups.  
12.  
Business Events Australia North American 
Showcase (July 2028) - Has this specific event 
been held before, and if so, where? 
This single-city Business Events Showcase event 
is a new format and would replace a previous 
multi-city roadshow format. 
13.  
What are the proposed dates you are 
considering for the 2027 & 2029 Market place 
Both events are scheduled in September but do 
not have specific date requirements within that 

Addendum Notice [2] – Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 3 of 3 
events? RFT mentions completion Sept but are 
there specific dates? 
month. The Marketplace event is held on 
weekdays. 
14.  
In regards to the roadshow between Jan – June 
2028 are these to be ran consecutively with 
minimal days between or spaced apart? Or are 
they planned to run simultaneously? 
The Luxury showcase events will be held 
consecutively over an approximately 2-week 
period. 
15.  
Does the business event show case have to align 
in any way, timing wise, with the 3 x roadshows? 
No, the business event showcase is a 
standalone event, separate from the 3 x 
roadshow events.  
16.  
Only 1 event within the RFT has a budget DO NOT 
EXCEED cost, are there the same for the other 
events you could share  
Tourism Australia confirms that there are no 
published financial caps or "do not exceed" budgets 
for the Australia Marketplace North America (2027 
and 2029) or the Signature Experiences Luxury 
Showcase (2028). 
To ensure a highly competitive process and to 
secure the best overall Value for Money, Tourism 
Australia does not disclose internal budget 
estimates or baseline funding parameters for these 
activations. 
Tenderers are instructed to thoroughly review the 
Statement of Requirements (including the provided 
historical context, delegate numbers, and scale 
expectations) and submit their most competitive, 
realistic, and commercially innovative pricing 
models to deliver the required scope. 
17.  
 
 
 
 




============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: PRO-TENCM-RFT-PROCFY26078.pdf
============================================================

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REQUEST FOR TENDER 
EVENT MANAGEMENT SERViCES:  
NORTH AMERiCA 2027-2029 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 
PROCFY26078 
RFT Issue Date: 
21 July 2026 AEST 
20 July 2026 PDT 
Tender Closing Time: 
15 August 2026, by 10AM AEST 
14 August 2026, by 5PM PDT 
Contact Officer: 
Carmen Russell  
Contact Details: 
crussell@tourism.australia.com  
cc’ tenders@tourism.australia.com   
 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 2 of 21 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1 
Overview of the RFT ........................................................................................................................................................ 3 
2 
Statement of Requirements ......................................................................................................................................... 4 
3 
Tender Submission Instructions ................................................................................................................................ 13 
4 
Evaluation Process ....................................................................................................................................................... 15 
5 
General Terms ............................................................................................................................................................... 21 
 
 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 3 of 21 
1 OVERVIEW OF THE RFT 
1.1 
About Tourism Australia 
Tourism Australia is the Australian Government agency responsible for attracting international visitors for leisure 
and business events. We operate in 15 key markets, and our activities include advertising, public relations, trade 
shows, consumer promotions, online communications, and market research. For more information, please visit 
our corporate website at www.tourism.australia.com or our consumer website (www.australia.com).  
1.2 
Purpose 
We are seeking tenders from appropriately qualified and experienced suppliers to deliver end-to-end 
management, strategic planning, and on-site logistical execution for Tourism Australia (TA)’s nominated 
signature events in the North American market held between 2027 to 2029, in line with the Statement of 
Requirements (Section 2). We reserve the right to award and contract with one or more suppliers. 
1.3 
Contact Officers and Clarification Requests 
1.3.1 
Please direct all questions in writing to the Contact Officer via crussell@tourism.australia.com and cc’  
tenders@tourism.australia.com.   
1.3.2 
Do not contact other Tourism Australia staff about this RFT. 
1.3.3 
To ensure fairness, de-identified questions and answers received before the End of Q&A Period will be 
shared with all potential tenderers in AusTender.  
1.4 
Indicative Procurement Timeline 
The following is an indicative timetable for this RFT process and may be subject to change: 
Key Milestones 
 
Indicative Timing 
RFT Issue Date 
21 July 2026 AEST 
20 July 2026 PDT 
End of Q&A Period 
7 August 2026, by 10AM AEST 
6 August 2026, by 5pm PDT 
Tender Closing Time 
15 August 2026, by 10AM AEST 
14 August 2026, by 5PM PDT 
Primary/First Round Evaluation of Tenders 
17-28 August 2026 
Shortlisted Supplier(s) Presentations 
4 September 2026 AEST 
3 September2026 PDT 
Second Round Evaluation 
September – November 2026 
Contract Negotiations (if required) 
November 2026 
Commencement of Contract 
1 December 2026 
 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 4 of 21 
2 STATEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS 
2.1 
Background and Strategic Context 
Purpose 
 
Tourism Australia (TA) is approaching the market to identify and appoint a suitably qualified, highly 
experienced event management agency to deliver a multi-year portfolio of signature business-to-
business trade events across North America. 
The primary objective of this procurement is to establish a consolidated commercial partnership 
that drives strategic consistency, operational efficiency, and financial value across TA’s North 
American event schedule for the 2027 to 2029 period. By partnering with a single event delivery 
specialist, TA seeks to elevate the creative execution and delegate experience of its hallmark trade 
events whilst ensuring rigorous financial governance and strict adherence to Commonwealth risk 
and compliance frameworks. 
Description 
The successful tenderer will act as the principal event management agency, assuming holistic 
responsibility for the end-to-end creative design, logistical planning, and onsite operational 
execution for the following core events: 
o 
Australia Marketplace North America 2027 and 2029: A large-scale, multi-day trade event 
connecting Australian tourism operators with North American travel advisors. The 2027 event 
is to be hosted in Los Angeles, California, while the location of the 2029 event is to be 
determined. 
o 
Signature Experiences Luxury Showcase USA 2028: A premium three-city roadshow 
involving intimate networking events targeting high-net-worth travel designers, luxury 
consortia and media representatives. One event will be hosted in New York City, New York, 
with the two other city locations to be determined. 
o 
Business Events Australia North American Showcase 2028: A highly targeted, boutique 
familiarisation and networking event for corporate meeting planners and incentive buyers, with 
the host city to be determined. 
The scope of services encompasses venue procurement and management, creative thematic 
design, run-of-show production, delegate registration logistics, third-party vendor management, 
and comprehensive onsite health, safety, and risk management. 
Background 
North America remains one of the most critical and high-yielding international source markets for 
the Australian visitor economy. TA’s overarching strategy in this region heavily relies on facilitating 
direct, high-value commercial connections between Australian tourism products and influential 
North American travel sellers. 
Historically, TA has approached the market for these events on an ad-hoc or single-event basis. 
Transitioning to a multi-year portfolio approach is a strategic shift designed to foster a deeper 
agency partnership. This consolidated model aims to leverage economies of scale, retain critical 
operational knowledge year-on-year, and provide the appointed agency with the long-term visibility 
required to secure highly competitive, multi-year venue and vendor agreements on TA’s behalf. 
Delivery Location 
While the core planning, account management, and pre-event logistics may be executed from the 
successful agency’s primary place of business, the physical delivery and onsite execution of the 
services will occur exclusively within North America. 
Specifically, the physical delivery locations are: 
o 
Los Angeles, California (Australia Marketplace North America 2027) with the 2029 event 
location to be determined) 
o 
New York City, New York (Luxury Showcase 2028 – one leg of a 3-city roadshow with the 
second and third city locations to be determined) 
o 
North American host city to be confirmed (Business Events Showcase 2028) 
 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 5 of 21 
2.2 
Scope of Requirements 
Requirement 
 
Details 
Corporate Capability 
and Demonstrated 
Track Record 
 A highly experienced EMC with a proven, verifiable history of delivering high-profile, complex B2B 
and luxury trade events within the North American market. 
Service Delivery Requirement 
o 
Leverage established domestic supplier networks, venue relationships, and regional market 
knowledge to negotiate premium rates and secure high-demand venues across the United 
States. 
Submission Requirement - Package 1: Corporate Capability and Track Record 
§ 
Submit a detailed corporate profile highlighting your agency’s core competencies. 
§ 
Include three relevant case studies of events delivered within the last 36 months of a similar 
scale and premium nature, detailing the initial brief, the executed solution, and the measurable 
outcomes achieved. 
Account 
Management, 
Staffing and Attendee 
Experience 
 A dedicated, highly skilled account management team and sufficient onsite resourcing to ensure 
consistent, high-quality operational delivery and a premium experience for all event delegates. 
Service Delivery Requirement 
o 
Assign a dedicated senior account manager to act as the primary strategic and operational 
liaison for TA throughout the contract term. 
o 
Provide dedicated onsite event managers and sufficient support personnel for all events to 
independently oversee front-of-house operations, including venue layout integrity, VIP hosting, 
and immediate attendee troubleshooting. 
o 
Manage comprehensive attendee-facing logistics, including the establishment and operation of 
onsite registration desks, session flow management, and the procurement and printing of 
delegate name badges. 
Submission Requirement - Package 2: Account Management and Resourcing 
§ 
Submit an organisational chart detailing the proposed account team, including detailed 
biographies or CVs of key personnel.  
§ 
Outline your approach to onsite resource allocation, staff contingency planning, and the 
management of seamless attendee registration and session flow. 
Risk Management, 
Safety and Third-
Party Operations 
The supplier must have the capability to act as the primary operational lead for onsite health, safety, 
security and logistics, including proactive risk management, compliance with local regulations and 
TA governance requirements, effective freight coordination, and the management of third-party 
vendors in accordance with TA's safety and compliance standards. 
Service Delivery Requirement 
o 
Develop, implement, and maintain comprehensive Event Risk Management and Safety Plans for 
each event, including emergency evacuation procedures, medical incident response, and crowd 
control. 
o 
Source, contract, and actively manage all third-party suppliers (e.g., security personnel, 
cleaners, catering staff, AV technicians, and physical setup crews), ensuring all subcontractors 
comply with local labour laws and TA's ethical sourcing standards.  
o 
Manage all end-to-end freight logistics at venue, including secure storage, and timely bump-
in/bump-out of TA and partner assets across multiple North American locations. 
o 
Conduct pre-event WHS site inductions for all staff, sub-contractors, and relevant TA personnel, 
ensuring absolute compliance with local workplace health and safety legislation.  
o 
Ensure dedicated onsite security management is in place to protect delegates, physical assets, 
and confidential event data. 
Submission Requirement - Package 3: Risk, Safety and Subcontractor Management 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 6 of 21 
§ 
Provide an example of an Event Risk Management and Safety Plan developed and executed for 
a recent large-scale corporate event in North America. 
§ 
Detail your methodology for sourcing, vetting, and managing third-party sub-contractors, 
specifically addressing how you ensure fair working conditions, verify appropriate insurances, 
and manage performance. 
§ 
Outline your proposed approach to managing international and interstate freight logistics for a 
multi-city roadshow, including strategies to mitigate supply chain delays or customs issues. 
Financial Tracking 
and Cost 
Management 
The supplier must deploy rigorous financial controls, transparent procurement processes for third-
party vendors, and accurate budgetary reporting to ensure all events are delivered within agreed 
financial parameters. 
Service Delivery Requirement 
o 
Manage comprehensive event budgets, providing regular expenditure forecasts and tracking 
documents to TA. 
o 
Ensure transparent pass-through costs for all third-party suppliers, leveraging agency buying 
power to secure industry discounts or value-adds wherever possible. 
o 
Process and manage all vendor deposits, milestone payments, and final acquittals in a 
compliant and timely manner. 
Submission Requirement - Package 4: Cost Management Methodology 
§ 
Outline your budget management framework, specifically detailing how you track expenditure, 
handle currency fluctuations, and report against rigid expenditure caps. 
§ 
Do not include any proposed management fees, hourly rates, or actual project pricing in this 
package. All commercial figures must be strictly contained within the separate Attachment 2 - 
Pricing Response Schedule. 
Australia Marketplace 
North America 
(September 2027 
and September 
2029) 
The supplier is required to deliver full-scale execution, operational planning, and onsite management 
for the single-city biennial trade exhibition, acting as the primary B2B platform connecting Australian 
tourism operators with North American buyers.  
Service Delivery Requirement 
o 
Secure and manage appropriate conference facilities configured to smoothly accommodate up 
to 120 individual Australian suppliers and approximately 250 total delegates in a standard 
tradeshow B2B appointment format. This includes managing a centralised registration zone 
active from day one and equipping two standalone meeting rooms to function as a TA logistics 
office and a team briefing room.  
o 
Deliver a seamless event flow across the 3-day program layout. Day 1 operations require 
executing delegate registration, a formal conference welcome event, and a TA industry update 
in the afternoon and evening. Days 2 and 3 require executing standard tradeshow seller-buyer 
meeting schedules, culminating in a formal conference closing event at the conclusion of Day 3.  
o 
Direct and manage dedicated food and beverage footprints within the venue to facilitate 
continuous operations, including daily breakfast, lunch, networking dinners, and scheduled 
coffee breaks for approximately 250 delegates.  
o 
Coordinate and manage a hotel accommodation block securing up to 225 rooms per night under 
a minimum 4-star industry rating for 3 nights. The supplier must manage a balanced mix of 
single and shared or twin occupancy configurations, prioritising a single-site solution over split 
accommodation models.  
o 
Manage the practical execution, spatial footprint allocation, and creative delivery of all confirmed 
event sponsorships in strict accordance with the packages negotiated by TA. 
Submission Requirement - Package 5: Marketplace Event Methodology 
Tenderers must submit a detailed proposal demonstrating their capability, market leverage, and 
operational methodology to execute the AMNA portfolio.  
§ 
Propose three comprehensive venue options within Los Angeles County capable of delivering 
the exact 2027 event scope, including detailed space capacities, menu concepts, floor layouts, 
and room block configurations. Tenderers must explicitly identify their top recommended 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 7 of 21 
property and provide full line-item cost estimates for conference facilities, accommodation, food 
and beverage, and audiovisual setups within the separate pricing response sheet (Attachment 2 
– Pricing Response Schedule) 
§ 
Outline a strategic methodology for sourcing the undetermined US destination for AMNA 2029. 
This must include a detailed cost-benefit analysis exploring the commercial feasibility, potential 
volume discounts, and fee-containment advantages of securing a single multi-year venue 
partnership covering both the 2027 and 2029 events in advance. 
§ 
Provide a master critical path and venue-sourcing timeline mapping out key room block 
contraction gates, coupled with a detailed, minute-by-minute logistical run-of-show template 
used for a recent large-scale B2B trade event. 
§ 
Propose a comprehensive, 1-page prospectus tailored for a potential Gold Sponsor (e.g., an 
airline partner, valued at approximately USD $20,000 to $30,000). The proposal must detail the 
specific commercial inclusions, high-impact branding footprints, and creative event activations 
the supplier recommends providing to maximise the sponsor's return on investment. 
Historical Context and Event Standard  
To assist tenderers in understanding the premium scale, format, and delegate experience expected 
for the Australia Marketplace North America (AMNA) events, tenderers are encouraged to review the 
execution of AMNA 2025. Reference material detailing the 2025 format can be accessed here: 
https://www.travelagewest.com/Events/australia-marketplace-north-america-2025 
Proposed methodologies for 2027 and 2029 must meet or exceed this established standard of 
delivery. 
Signature 
Experiences Luxury 
Showcase USA 
(January – June 
2028) 
The supplier must execute a highly tailored, premium three-city roadshow between January and 
June 2028, designed to inspire and educate elite luxury travel advisors and media representatives, 
requiring sophisticated creative concepts and thematic design.  
Service Delivery Requirement 
o 
Develop and execute bespoke creative concepts, thematic styling, and layout designs that 
elevate the luxury positioning of the Signature Experiences brand.  
o 
Source boutique, upscale venue spaces capable of hosting approximately 75 high-end guests 
per city. Venues must support a four-hour evening schedule featuring a distinct welcome 
reception footprint, an adjacent seated presentation space, and a dedicated screening room (or 
premium audiovisual equivalent)/ 
o 
Coordinate upscale catering capabilities, including substantial canapés and a premium 
beverage package, tailored to the luxury audience.  
o 
Manage all local third-party providers, including venue decorators, bespoke menus, gift items, 
and specialty talent (such as musicians, guest speakers, artists, and photographers).  
Submission Requirement - Package 6: Luxury Showcase and Creative Methodology 
§ 
Recommend a program format and a specific, highly suitable venue in New York City that 
achieves the strategic objective for this leg of the roadshow. Note: Ensure all associated 
estimated pricing for this proposed venue is detailed exclusively within Attachment 2 – Pricing 
Response Schedule. 
§ 
Submit preliminary creative concepts, thematic styling ideas, or mood boards demonstrating an 
understanding of luxury brand positioning. 
Historical Context and Event Standard  
To assist tenderers in understanding the highly tailored, boutique nature expected for the Signature 
Experiences Luxury Showcase, tenderers are encouraged to review the execution of the recent 
Toronto leg of the roadshow. Reference material detailing the previous format can be accessed here: 
https://www.paxnews.com/news/tourism-board/tourism-australia-returns-to-pitch-signature-
experiences-luxury-advisors  
Tenderers should use this as a baseline to inform their premium creative concepts for the New York 
City activation. 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 8 of 21 
Business Events 
Australia North 
American Showcase 
(July 2028) 
The supplier is tasked with the logistical coordination and financial management of a targeted 
commercial activation for the business events sector. This is a premium, single-city boutique event 
acting as the primary B2B platform connecting business events focused Australian suppliers with 
North American buyers.  
Service Delivery Requirement 
o 
Manage the end-to-end logistical coordination and onsite hosting of travelling Australian industry 
partners and North American buyers (approximately 60 attendees) across a 3-day event 
program. Day 1 operations require organizing a welcome reception event. Days 2 and 3 require 
executing standard seller-buyer meeting schedules, with a group dinner on Day 2 serving as the 
primary social event. 
o 
Coordinate and manage a hotel accommodation block securing up to 60 rooms per night under 
a minimum 4-star industry rating for 2 nights. Deliver the complete event scope strictly within a 
predefined net budget cap of USD $150,000.  
Submission Requirement - Package 7: Business Events Methodology 
§ 
Propose a strategic program format, ideal event dates, recommended city location, and a 
specific venue that best serves the target audience. Note: Ensure all associated estimated 
pricing for this proposed venue is detailed exclusively within Attachment 2 – Pricing Response 
Schedule. 
§ 
Recommend and detail a specific program element or activation that would be highly engaging 
and unique for this North American B2B audience.   
Sustainability 
The supplier must embed environmentally sustainable practices throughout the event planning and 
execution lifecycles to align with TA’s sustainability objectives.  
Service Delivery Requirement 
o 
Minimise the environmental footprint of all events by prioritising digital collateral, eliminating 
single-use plastics, avoiding waste, and selecting catering partners focused on local, 
sustainable sourcing.  
o 
Ensure all procured goods and consumables are managed to minimise packaging waste.  
Submission Requirement - Package 8: Sustainability Approach 
§ 
Detail three practical, environmentally sustainable initiatives that will be physically implemented 
across TA’s event portfolio. 
Value Add/Innovation 
The supplier is encouraged to propose strategic enhancements and commercial innovations, or 
complimentary services that elevate the overall event experience or drive operational efficiencies 
beyond the baseline requirements 
Service Delivery Requirement 
o 
Implement technological or logistical solutions that streamline attendee registration, enhance 
B2B networking capabilities, or yield measurable cost reductions during the contract term. 
Submission Requirement - Package 9: Value Add & Innovation 
§ 
Highlight any proprietary event management technologies, strategic vendor partnerships, or 
complimentary services offered at no additional cost that distinguish their proposal and deliver 
enhanced value for money. 
 
2.3 
Deliverables 
Deliverable 
 
Description 
Creative and 
Thematic Concepts 
Delivery of comprehensive mood boards, styling proposals, and layout designs tailored for all events  

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 9 of 21 
Comprehensive 
Event Project Plans 
Detailed project management documentation for all events, outlining critical paths, vendor deadlines, 
and specific resource allocations. 
Event Risk 
Management and 
Safety Plans 
Delivery of comprehensive, site-specific safety and emergency response plans for every event 
activation, tailored to local jurisdictional requirements. 
Sub-contractor 
Compliance Register 
Provision of a verified register prior to each event detailing all engaged third-party vendors, their 
scope of work, confirmed insurance currency (Public Liability and Workers Compensation), and 
confirmation of their adherence to ethical labour standards. 
Freight and Logistics 
Schedule 
A detailed tracking document outlining delivery timelines, and secure storage arrangements for all 
physical event assets. 
Venue Sourcing and 
Contracting 
A matrix of thoroughly vetted venue and accommodation options for each event, culminating in the 
execution of localised venue contracts. 
Logistical Run-of-
Show 
Minute-by-minute operational schedules for all events, ensuring seamless transitions between 
networking, presentations, and food and beverage services. 
Onsite Event 
Execution 
Deployment of dedicated event managers and support staff across all cities to oversee front-of-
house operations, registration desks, and delegate coordination. 
Post-Event Financial 
Reconciliation and 
Reporting 
Provision of detailed post-event financial acquittals, consolidated invoices, and qualitative attendee 
feedback analysis. 
 
2.4 Milestones 
Estimated 
Milestone Date 
 
Description 
December 2026 
Contract execution, vendor onboarding, and initial strategic planning session. 
January 2027 
Submission of formal venue and accommodation recommendations for Australia Marketplace 2027. 
April 2027 
Finalisation of all primary venue and supplier contracts for Australia Marketplace 2027. 
60 Days Prior to 
Each Event 
Submission of the draft Event Risk Management and Safety Plans, alongside the preliminary Freight 
and Logistics Schedule for Tourism Australia's review and endorsement. 
30 Days Prior to 
Each Event 
Submission of the finalised Sub-contractor Compliance Register, demonstrating that all third-party 
vendors have been successfully vetted and onboarded. 
September 2027 
Successful onsite execution of Australia Marketplace North America 2027. 
January 2028 
Submission of creative concepts, venue recommendations, and run-of-show plans for the Signature 
Experiences Luxury Showcase and Business Events Roadshow. 
January – July 2028 
Successful onsite execution of the Signature Experiences Luxury Showcase  
July 2028 
Successful onsite execution of the Business Events Showcase 
September 2028 
Submission of formal venue and accommodation recommendations for Australia Marketplace 2029. 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 10 of 21 
September 2029 
Successful onsite execution of Australia Marketplace North America 2029. 
December 2029 
Contract close-out, final financial reconciliation, and handover reporting. 
 
2.5 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
KPI  
 
Description 
Measure 
Operational Event 
Delivery 
The successful and seamless execution of all 
nominated events within agreed parameters. 
Zero critical logistical failures onsite; highly 
positive satisfaction ratings (85% or above) 
captured via post-event delegate and internal 
stakeholder surveys. 
Financial 
Management and 
Cost Containment 
Strict adherence to approved event budgets and 
accurate financial reconciliation. 
Delivery of the Business Events Showcase 
strictly within the USD $150,000 expenditure 
cap; all other events delivered within the 
approved financial baselines with zero 
unapproved budget variations. 
Creative and 
Thematic Excellence 
The successful implementation of premium 
styling and event design that aligns with TA’s 
brand positioning. 
Stakeholder approval of all creative concepts 
prior to implementation; consistent thematic 
execution across multi-city roadshows. 
Account 
Management and 
Responsiveness 
The maintenance of a highly responsive, 
proactive, and collaborative relationship with the 
TA North America team, alongside flawless front-
of-house delegate management. 
100% on-time delivery of Project Plans and Post-
Event Reports; continuity of core staffing; zero 
delegate complaints regarding registration or 
onsite support; resolution of ad-hoc commercial 
or operational queries within 24 hours. 
Compliance and Risk 
Mitigation 
Absolute compliance with all statutory, 
regulatory, and contractual obligations, including 
proactive risk management onsite. 
Zero workplace health and safety (WHS) 
incidents onsite; full compliance with the 
approved Contract and Risk Management Plan 
throughout the term. 
Safety, Logistics and 
Sub-contractor 
Governance 
The proactive management of all physical onsite 
risks, secure and timely freight logistics, and the 
ethical management of all third-party vendors in 
alignment with TA’s standards. 
100% of event freight delivered and secured on 
schedule with zero customs delays; 100% of 
third-party vendors verified for insurance and 
labour compliance prior to bump-in; zero critical 
safety or security breaches onsite. 
2.6 Brand Alignment and Creative Direction 
2.6.1 
While Tourism Australia has provided a baseline programme outline for each event, tenderers are 
strongly encouraged to develop and propose their own creative direction. All proposed creative 
concepts, thematic styling, and event branding must strictly align with the overarching Tourism 
Australia brand identity. Tenderers must refer to the Tourism Australia Brand Guidelines 2025 when 
developing their creative methodologies. 
2.7 
Contract Term 
2.7.1 
The proposed contract term is: 3 years 
2.7.2 
The contract will not provide for an option to extend the term further. 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 11 of 21 
2.8 Scope Flexibility and Volume Fluctuations 
2.8.1 
While this RFT outlines the anticipated portfolio of North American trade events for the 2027 to 2029 
period, this contract structure establishes absolute operational flexibility. TA retains the unilateral right 
to amend, alter, rescale, postpone, or entirely remove specific event programs throughout the duration 
of the three-year term based on fluctuating business needs, budget parameters, or strategic shifts. 
Tenderers must acknowledge that no minimum volume of work or expenditure is guaranteed under 
this arrangement. Any subsequent variation or reduction in scope will be managed strictly in 
accordance with the provided Attachment 3 – Draft Contract. 
2.9 
HSEQ Obligations 
2.9.1 
By lodging a tender, you confirm compliance with applicable Health, Safety, Environment and Quality 
legislation/standards. We may request evidence during evaluation. 
2.10 Security and Privacy Requirements 
2.10.1 The Service Provider must implement and maintain robust security measures across all physical and 
digital touchpoints of the event lifecycle. The Service Provider must comply with: 
o Physical Security: All local, state, and federal security and safety regulations applicable to the event 
delivery locations in North America, including the provision of comprehensive crowd management, 
asset protection, and emergency response protocols. 
o Data Protection and Privacy: Strict adherence to all applicable Privacy and Data Protection Laws 
(including the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth)) when collecting, storing, and processing delegate Personal 
Information, dietary requirements, and registration data.  
o Data Sovereignty: Tourism Australia data must not be stored, accessed, or transferred outside of 
permitted countries without explicit prior written consent from Tourism Australia.  
o IT Security: The Protective Security Policy Framework (PSPF) and the Australian Government 
Information Security Manual (ISM), specifically to the extent they apply to the software or digital 
registration platforms utilised for the delivery of the Services. 
o Internal Policies: Tourism Australia’s internal Security Instructions and IT Acceptable Use policies, 
where the agency accesses Tourism Australia systems. 
o Specific Directions: Any subsequent directions issued by Tourism Australia regarding the security 
of personnel, physical assets, or data.  
2.11 Insurance Requirements 
2.11.1 The following insurances are required of the successful tenderer:  
Insurance Type 
 
Insurance Amount Required 
Public Liability Insurance (PLI) 
≥ USD $2M 
Professional Indemnity Insurance (PII) 
≥ USD $1M 
Workers’ Compensation Insurance (WC) 
According to Statutory Requirement 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 12 of 21 
2.12 Transition Arrangements 
Phase 
Min Requirement and Details 
Transition In 
To ensure the multi-year project commences properly and structural alignment is established 
immediately, the following onboarding activities will occur within the first four weeks of contract execution:  
o 
Implementation Team Establishment: Formalise the joint contract management team comprising the 
TA North America Business Sponsor, the TA Contract Manager, and the supplier's dedicated Senior 
Account Manager.  
o 
Kick-Off Workshop: Conduct a strategic alignment workshop to review the initial project blueprint, 
clarify the creative direction for the Luxury Showcase, and define the financial reporting cadences.  
o 
Contract and Risk Management Plan: Finalise and deploy the formal Contract and Risk 
Management Plan, embedding the escalation matrix, variation processes, and the agreed RACI 
(Responsible, Accountable, Consult, Inform) resourcing plan.  
o 
Compliance Verification: Confirm the receipt of all required insurance certificates and any required 
confidentiality agreements. 
Transition Out 
At the conclusion of the 2029 Australia Marketplace event, or upon earlier termination, a formal 
transition-out process will be initiated to ensure all TA assets and data are secured:  
o 
Financial Finalisation: The supplier must submit all outstanding invoices and a final consolidated 
account statement indicating all amounts owed or unspent. The TA Contract Administrator will settle 
outstanding claims and complete final budget acquittals.  
o 
Intellectual Property and Data Handover: The supplier must securely transfer all TA Intellectual 
Property back to TA, including creative concepts, thematic designs, high-resolution event 
photography, delegate databases, and post-event survey data.  
o 
Secure Destruction of Information: Following the successful handover of data, the supplier must 
execute the secure destruction of all remaining TA confidential information and delegate Personal 
Information, providing a formal certificate of destruction to the TA Contract Manager.  
o 
Contract Closure Review: A final performance review will be conducted to capture supplier feedback, 
document lessons learned for future North American procurements and formally verify that all 
technical and financial obligations have been fulfilled.  

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 13 of 21 
3 TENDER SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS 
3.1 
What to Lodge 
You must submit the following documents in the specified formats: 
 
 
# 
Document 
Description 
Format 
1 
Tender Response Schedule 
RFT Attachment 1 - Including: 
§ 
tenderer’s details 
§ 
insurance coverage 
§ 
details of subcontractors 
§ 
client references 
§ 
conflicts of interest 
§ 
statement of compliance with draft contract 
(departure clauses and rationale must be 
provided if partially or non-compliant) 
§ 
Modern Slavery Questionnaire 
§ 
signed tenderer’s declaration 
Word or PDF as a standalone 
document 
Presented in English 
2 
Pricing Response Schedule  
RFT Attachment 2 – Including: 
§ 
proposed pricing for the contract term  
§ 
any critical assumptions for pricing 
Excel spreadsheet as a 
standalone document 
Presented in English in USD 
You must not present pricing 
anywhere else in your 
submission except in this 
standalone document 
3 
Your Proposal 
Including: 
§ 
an executive summary 
§ 
the 9 Submission Packages (the Proposal) 
to meet the Statement of Requirements 
addressing the Evaluation Criteria 
 
Word, PDF, or PowerPoint 
Presented in English 
4 
Draft Contract with Markups 
RFT Attachment 3 – proposed marked-up 
changes (tracked changes) to the TA Draft 
Contract terms and conditions – to accompany 
the statement of compliance with draft contract 
section from RFT Attachment 1. 
Word 
3.2 
Submission of Tenders 
3.2.1 
You must submit your tender electronically via AusTender (www.tenders.gov.au). Submissions must be 
successfully completed and received before the Tender Closing Time. Tenders must be presented in 
English.  
3.2.2 
We encourage you to review the support information and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) available 
on AusTender Help and Information Centre. If you require further technical assistance, you can log a 
support ticket directly with the AusTender team by clicking the ‘Assistance’ button on the website. 
3.2.3 
To avoid potential delays, we recommend that you familiarise yourself with the AusTender portal and 
commence your upload well in advance of the Tender Closing Time. 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 14 of 21 
3.3 Tender Closing Time and Validity 
3.3.1 
The Tender Closing Time is 5PM PDT on 14 August 2026 (or 10AM AEST on 15 August 2026). A tender 
received after the Tender Closing Time will not be considered unless the delay is due solely to our 
mishandling. 
3.3.2 
Tenders should remain open for acceptance for a minimum of 180 days from the Tender Closing Time.  
3.4 Departures, Assumptions or Alternative Proposals 
3.4.1 
You must explicitly list any departures, assumptions or alternatives to this RFT in your tender. If 
submitting an alternative tender, you must also submit a conforming tender. 
 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 15 of 21 
4 EVALUATION PROCESS 
4.1 
Assessment Objectives 
4.1.1 
Tenders will be evaluated to identify the option/s that represents the best overall value for money. We 
may consider factors such as fitness for purpose, performance history, risk, flexibility and price. 
4.2 Conditions for Participation 
4.2.1 
TA will assess all submitted tenders against the following mandatory Conditions for Participation. This 
assessment will be conducted strictly on a Pass/Fail basis. Tenders that fail to meet any of these 
conditions will be deemed non-compliant and will be excluded from further evaluation. 
Condition 
 
Details 
Tender Responses 
and Schedules 
Condition for Participation  
The tenderer must submit all required responses and response schedules in full by the stipulated 
Tender Closing Time. 
Submission Requirement  
§ 
Successful lodgement of all items noted in Section 3.1 prior to the specified deadline. 
Ethical Conduct and 
Practices 
Condition for Participation  
The tenderer must operate under stable ethical governance frameworks and have no unresolved 
judicial or regulatory findings regarding workplace non-compliance, employee entitlements, or severe 
breaches of work health and safety laws. 
Submission Requirement  
§ 
A signed declaration (executed within the Attachment 1 - Tender Response Schedule) 
confirming their compliance with all local labour regulations, workplace health and safety laws, 
and the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct. Tenderers must also declare any historical 
or pending judicial or regulatory findings regarding workplace non-compliance. 
§ 
Transparent disclosure of subcontractors (executed within the Attachment 1 - Tender Response 
Schedule), detailing any intended third-party or offshore arrangements, specifying the legal 
entity name, corporate address, and the precise scope of tasks to be outsourced. 
Modern Slavery Risk 
Management 
Condition for Participation  
The tenderer must demonstrate an active commitment to identifying, assessing, and addressing 
modern slavery risks within their operations and multi-tier supply chains. 
Submission Requirement 
§ 
Tenderers must complete and submit Tourism Australia's Modern Slavery Questionnaire  
Conflict of Interest 
Declaration 
Condition for Participation 
The tenderer must be free from any unmanageable actual, potential, or perceived conflict of interest 
that could compromise their professional impartiality or undermine the commercial and strategic 
interests of Tourism Australia. 
Submission Requirement 
§ 
Tenderers must submit a comprehensive and accurate Conflict of Interest Declaration via the 
designated Attachment 1 – Tender Response Schedule.  
§ 
This declaration must explicitly detail any current or recently concluded engagements with 
competing national tourism organisations (particularly those operating within TA’s key target 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 16 of 21 
markets such as New Zealand, Canada, and South Africa), Australian State and Territory 
tourism bodies, or other relevant regional tourism entities.  
§ 
Submissions that fail to provide this declaration, or where TA determines an identified conflict 
cannot be adequately managed through established probity protocols, will be excluded from 
further participation. 
Legal and 
Operational Capacity 
to Operate in North 
America 
Condition for Participation 
Given the physical delivery of services across multiple locations within the United States, the 
tenderer must be legally equipped to operate within this jurisdiction. The tenderer must possess a 
formally established operational footprint or act as a registered legal entity with the lawful right to 
conduct business, employ staff, and execute commercial contracts locally. Where the tenderer does 
not possess this direct legal presence, they must maintain a formally established relationship with a 
local partner agency that possesses these rights to act on their behalf. 
Submission Requirement 
Tenderers must provide verifiable evidence demonstrating a legitimate, legally compliant operational 
presence in the target jurisdiction. To demonstrate this capability, tenderers must submit: 
§ 
Valid local business registration documentation (e.g., certificate of incorporation, local tax 
registration, or equivalent statutory business licence) demonstrating the legal authority to 
operate commercially within the United States; OR 
§ 
A formally executed joint venture or partnership agreement detailing the local partner agency 
that will fulfil these legal and operational rights on the tenderer's behalf, inclusive of the partner 
agency's corporate registration details. 
Insurance 
Requirements 
Coverage 
Condition for Participation 
The tenderer must currently hold, or commit to securing prior to contract execution, the minimum 
required insurance coverages to protect TA against financial and operational risk.  
Submission Requirement 
§ 
Formal confirmation within Attachment 1 – Tender Response Schedule of the tenderer's ability 
to hold Public Liability, Professional Indemnity, and Workers Compensation insurances to the 
required thresholds. 
Financial Viability 
Condition for Participation 
The tenderer must be financially solvent and possess the economic capacity to deliver a high-value, 
multi-year international contract. 
Submission Requirement 
§ 
A signed declaration within Attachment 1 – Tender Response Schedule certifying financial 
stability, alongside an agreement to undergo an external financial viability assessment prior to 
contract award. 
Draft Contract 
Compliance 
Condition for Participation 
The tenderer must agree to the baseline terms of the Tourism Australia Draft Contract or clearly 
stipulate areas of non-compliance for commercial assessment. 
Submission Requirement 
§ 
A statement of compliance executed within Attachment 1 – Tender Response Schedule, 
accompanied by a marked-up version of the Draft Contract detailing any requested departures 
and their commercial or legal rationale. 
 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 17 of 21 
4.3 Evaluation Overview  
4.3.1 
TA will evaluate all tender submissions using a phased approach to ensure a fair, transparent, and highly 
competitive process that delivers the optimal Value for Money (VFM) outcome. The evaluation will be 
conducted in the following stages: 
o Phase 1: Compliance Screening (Mandatory Conditions for Participation)  
o Phase 2: Technical Evaluation (Weighted Scoring)  
o Phase 3: Shortlisted Supplier Presentations  
o Phase 4: Commercial and Pricing Evaluation  
o Phase 5: Value for Money (VFM) and Risk Assessment  
o Phase 6: Commercial Finalisation and Negotiations  
4.4 Phase 1: Compliance Screening 
4.4.1 
Each submission will undergo an initial screening to determine if the Conditions for Participation and 
mandatory requirements have been met (refer to Section 4.2). Non-compliant tenders will be 
eliminated from further consideration.  
4.5 Phase 2: Technical Evaluation 
4.5.1 
Compliant submissions will progress to a detailed qualitative assessment by the Evaluation Committee. 
Submissions will be evaluated against the following weighted technical criteria:  
Criteria* 
Detail*  
Weighting* 
Corporate Capability 
and Track Record 
Mapped to Submission Requirement - Package 1: Corporate Capability and 
Track Record 
What we are looking for: A highly experienced EMC with a proven, verifiable 
history of delivering high-profile, complex B2B and luxury trade events within the 
North American market.  
Assessment focus: The evaluation panel will assess the relevance, scale, and 
success of the provided case studies. Strong responses will explicitly demonstrate 
established domestic North American supplier networks, successful high-demand 
venue negotiations, and a deep understanding of managing premium tourism or 
luxury brand activations. 
10% 
Account 
Management, 
Staffing and 
Attendee Experience 
Mapped to Submission Requirement - Package 2: Account Management and 
Resourcing 
What we are looking for: A dedicated, highly skilled account management team 
and sufficient onsite resourcing to ensure consistent, high-quality operational 
delivery and a premium experience for all event delegates. 
Assessment focus: The panel will assess the calibre, relevant experience, and 
continuity of the proposed key personnel via the submitted organisational chart and 
biographies. The assessment will rigorously evaluate the tenderer's approach to 
front-of-house resource allocation, their staff contingency plans to mitigate personnel 
shortages, and their methodology for ensuring seamless delegate registration and 
onsite event flow. 
10% 
Risk, Safety and 
Subcontractor 
Management 
Mapped to Submission Requirement - Package 3: Risk, Safety and 
Subcontractor Management 
10% 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 18 of 21 
What we are looking for: Demonstrated capability to act as the primary operational 
lead for onsite health, safety, security and logistics, including proactive risk 
management, compliance with local regulations and TA governance requirements, 
effective freight coordination, and the management of third-party vendors. 
Assessment focus: 
o 
The robustness and comprehensiveness of the provided Event Risk 
Management and Safety Plan. 
o 
The transparency and rigor of the tenderer's sub-contractor management 
framework, particularly their controls against exploitative labour practices in 
high-risk categories like cleaning and security.  
o 
Demonstrated experience and reliability in handling complex, multi-state freight 
and customs logistics. 
Financial Tracking 
and Cost 
Management 
 
Mapped to Submission Requirement - Package 4: Cost Management 
Methodology 
What we are looking for: Rigorous financial controls, transparent procurement 
processes for third-party vendors, and accurate budgetary reporting systems, to 
ensure all events are delivered withing agreed financial parameters. 
Assessment focus: The panel will evaluate the robustness of the tenderer's 
financial governance framework, independent of their actual proposed fees. The 
panel will scrutinise the quality of their sample reporting templates, their 
methodology for managing foreign currency fluctuations, and the strategic maturity 
of their cost-containment processes. Responses will be highly rated if the supplier 
demonstrates transparent third-party procurement practices and a proven ability to 
leverage agency buying power to secure industry discounts. 
10% 
Proposed Event 
Methodologies and 
Creative Approach 
Mapped to Submission Requirements: 
o 
Package 5: Marketplace Event Methodology 
o 
Package 6: Luxury Showcase and Creative Methodology 
o 
Package 7: Business Events Methodology 
What we are looking for: Robust, logical, and highly creative venue options and 
methodologies for flawlessly executing the Australia Marketplace, the Signature 
Experiences Luxury Showcase, and the Business Events Showcase events.  
Assessment focus: 
Australia Marketplace North America 2027 and 2029 (Package 5) – 30% 
The structural suitability and logistical logic of the three proposed Los Angeles 
County venues. The commercial viability and creativity of the 1-page Gold Sponsor 
prospectus. The maturity of the B2B methodology, the feasibility of the timeline for 
securing room blocks, and the structural soundness of the logistical run-of-show 
template. 
Signature Experiences Luxury Showcase 2028 (Package 6) – 10% 
The premium nature, suitability, and luxury alignment of the proposed New York City 
venue and program format. The creativity, sophistication, and brand alignment of the 
submitted thematic concepts and mood boards. 
Business Events Australia North American Showcase 2028 (Package 7) – 10%  
The strategic logic behind the proposed city, dates, and venue selection for a North 
American B2B audience. The creativity and potential impact of the unique program 
element, alongside the panel's confidence that the proposed format can be 
successfully delivered within the rigid USD $150,000 budget cap. 
50%  
Sustainability 
Approach 
Mapped to Submission Requirement - Package 8: Sustainability Approach 
5% 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 19 of 21 
What we are looking for: A demonstrated commitment to embedding 
environmentally sustainable practices throughout the event planning and execution 
lifecycles, aligning with TA’s sustainability objectives.  
Assessment focus: The panel will evaluate the tenderer's corporate sustainability 
policy alongside the three specific, practical initiatives proposed for implementation 
across TA’s event portfolio. Strong responses will provide measurable strategies for 
eliminating single-use plastics, minimising packaging waste, and utilising local, 
sustainable food sourcing.  
Value Add and 
Innovation  
Mapped to Submission Requirement - Package 9: Value Add & Innovation 
What we are looking for: Strategic enhancements, commercial innovations, or 
complementary services that elevate the overall event experience or drive 
operational efficiencies beyond the baseline requirements. 
Assessment focus: The panel will assess the tangible value of any proprietary 
event management technologies, strategic vendor partnerships, or complimentary 
services offered at no additional cost that distinguish the submission. 
5% 
TOTAL 
100% 
4.6 Phase 3: Shortlisted Supplier Presentations 
4.6.1 
Following the Phase 2 desktop evaluation, TA may, at its absolute discretion, shortlist the highest-
scoring tenderers to participate in formal presentations. The objective of this phase is to validate 
written submissions, interrogate the proposed methodologies and creative concepts, and assess the 
account team capabilities. TA reserves the right to adjust a tenderer’s technical score based on the 
evidence and clarifications provided during these presentations. 
4.7 
Phase 4: Commercial and Pricing Evaluation 
4.7.1 
TA will conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the commercial and pricing submissions. Pricing will not 
be evaluated both quantitatively and qualitatively to establish the baseline for the Value for Money 
assessment. Tourism Australia will assess the total estimated Whole-of-Life value of the contract to 
determine if the proposed management fees and pass-through costs are realistic, competitive, and 
commensurate with the level of service and risk transfer outlined in the tenderer’s technical response. 
4.8 Phase 5: Value for Money (VFM) and Risk Assessment 
4.8.1 
Tourism Australia will undertake a comprehensive comparative analysis to identify the tenderer 
representing the best overall VFM. This holistic review will weigh the finalised technical scores against 
the unweighted Whole-of-Life costs. As part of this assessment, TA will apply a macro-level risk overlay, 
evaluating broader enterprise risks including financial viability, proposed contract departures, and the 
overall commercial risk profile of the proposed delivery model. Contract award will be driven by the 
optimal balance of capability, acceptable risk, and cost-effectiveness, rather than price or technical 
score alone. 
4.9 Phase 6: Commercial Finalisation and Negotiations 
4.9.1 
Tourism Australia intends to enter into exclusive commercial negotiations with the preferred tenderer 
identified through the VFM assessment. The scope of negotiations may include refinements to the 
pricing structure, management fees, or the clarification of proposed value-adds.  
4.9.2 
Tourism Australia reserves the right, at its absolute discretion, to: 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 20 of 21 
o Formally terminate negotiations if a mutually acceptable commercial agreement cannot be 
reached within a reasonable timeframe, and subsequently invite the next highest-ranked tenderer 
into negotiations.  
o Execute a Best and Final Offer (BAFO) process if top-ranked tenderers offer indistinguishable Value 
for Money outcomes.  
o Shortlist multiple tenderers to participate in parallel competitive negotiations prior to making a 
final award decision. 
4.9.3 
The identification of a preferred supplier does not constitute a binding agreement. Any subsequent 
contract award remains strictly subject to TA completing all mandatory internal governance processes, 
securing requisite executive approvals, and the formal execution of a written contract. 
4.10 Grounds for Exclusion 
4.10.1 We reserve the right to exclude a tender from consideration if it contains a false declaration or 
misleading information, or if you have an unmanageable conflict or a history of poor performance. 
4.11 Negotiations 
4.11.1 Negotiations may be undertaken with one or more Tenderers at our sole discretion. 
4.12 References 
4.12.1 We may request information from a third party that is relevant to the evaluation. By submitting a 
tender, you authorise us to collect and use this information. 
4.13 
Consortia and Unbundling 
4.13.1 We may select a tender from a joint venture or consortia or select individual elements of a tender to 
be delivered separately. 
4.14 Debriefing 
4.14.1 Debriefing opportunities will be provided to both successful and unsuccessful tenderers on request. 
 

Request for Tender - Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 21 of 21 
5 GENERAL TERMS 
5.1 
Acknowledgement and Disclaimer 
5.1.1 
We provide this RFT in good faith but make no warranty about completeness, accuracy or forecasts. 
5.1.2 
You are responsible for obtaining all information needed to prepare your tender. 
5.1.3 
By submitting, you confirm you have reviewed this RFT (and any addenda), relevant policies on our 
website (e.g. Fraud & Corruption, Public Interest Disclosure), reviewed the Commonwealth Supplier 
Code of Conduct and made your own enquiries in relation to each. 
5.1.4 You must rely on your own assessment when preparing your proposal. 
5.2 Costs 
5.2.1 
You bear your own costs of responding, regardless of outcome. 
5.3 No Contract 
5.3.1 
No contract will be created until a formal written contract is executed by us and a Tenderer. 
5.4 Public Statements and Confidentiality 
5.4.1 
Do not publish or publicise this RFT or any related work without our written approval. 
5.4.2 
We will endeavour to keep your tender confidential, however we have public accountability 
requirements that may lead to disclosure, including under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth). 
5.5 Addenda 
5.5.1 
Before the Tender Closing Time we may issue addenda; extend dates; or clarify or vary requirements. 
5.6 Our Rights 
5.6.1 
We reserve the right to accept or reject any tender, seek clarifications, presentations or conduct 
interviews; accept part or alternate solutions; or (in certain circumstances) discontinue the RFT 
process. 
5.7 
Intellectual Property Rights 
5.7.1 
All intellectual property in the RFT remains our property. You are licensed to use the RFT only for 
compiling your tender. You license us to use and copy your tender for evaluation, negotiation and 
contract management purposes. 
5.8 Tender Ownership and Return of Materials 
5.8.1 
All tenders become our property and will not be returned to you. 
5.9 Complaints Handling 
5.9.1 
Complaints should be sent to the Contact Officer via email.  
 




============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: PRO-TENCM-Attachment 3 Draft Contract-PROCFY26078.docx
============================================================

Long Form Services Agreement
between 

TOURISM AUSTRALIA
and
[INSERT COMPANY NAME]
in relation to Event Management Services 2027-2029: North America
Financial Year 2027/28, 2028/29, 2029/30
Schedule1 : Agreement Details

 Agreed Terms
Definitions
In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
Additional Insurance Policies means the insurance policies specified in Schedule 1 (if any), other than the insurance policies set out in clause 29.
Agreement means these agreed terms, Schedule 1, Schedule 2 and any other agreed annexure, schedule or appendix to this agreement, including any agreed variations executed by the parties in writing.
Anti-Corruption Laws has the meaning given to that term in clause 20.1.
Applicable WHS Law means any applicable occupational health and safety law, including any corresponding WHS law (as defined in section 4 of the WHS Act).
Artificial Intelligence System means a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day that is a public holiday in the state of New South Wales, Australia.
Claim means any claim, demand, proceeding, action, litigation, investigation or judgment whether based in contract, tort (including negligence), statute or otherwise.
Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct Code or Code means the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct, as published on 1 July 2024, as updated from time to time. 
Commencement Date means the date specified in Schedule 1.
Confidential Information means all information that:
is designated either specifically or generally as confidential in the Agreement; or
is designated by its owner as confidential or which the other party knows, or ought to know is confidential (provided that, if it is the Supplier’s information, it meets all four (4) criteria of the Confidentiality Test published on the Department of Finance website and TA agrees in writing to treat the information as confidential). Further information on the Confidentiality Test can be found at: Confidentiality throughout the Procurement Cycle | Department of Finance. 
Conflict of Interest, includes the following:
the provision of advice to, or the performance of any Services for, a person in a contractual relationship with TA that is connected with the Services; and
any situation which, in the reasonable view of an impartial observer, may hinder or prevent the Supplier from performing the Services in the best interests of TA.
Consequential Loss means any Loss that does not arise naturally in the ordinary course of things from the event or circumstance giving rise to the Loss. 
Contact means, for a party, the contact person specified in Schedule 1.
Contracted Items means the items, Deliverables, Services and Reports (including any combination of items, Deliverables, Services and Reports) provided or required to be provided by the Supplier to TA under and in accordance with this Agreement.
Contract Material has the meaning given to that term in clause 12.6.
Deliverable means the deliverables specified in Schedule 1. 
Delay means a failure by the Supplier to perform an obligation (including a failure to supply a Contracted Item) by the applicable Due Date.
Due Date means the date or time specified in the Agreement by or on which an obligation must be performed, as extended in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.
Eligible Data Breach means an ‘Eligible Data Breach’ as defined in the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). 
Expiration Date means the expiration date specified in Schedule 1.
Extension Period means the date specified in Schedule 1.
Fees means the fees specified in Schedule 1.
Force Majeure Event means:
an act of God, fire, lightening, earthquake, explosions, flood, subsidence or other natural disaster, insurrection or civil disorder or military operations or act of terrorism, expropriation, strikes, lock outs or other industrial disputes of any kind not relating solely to the party affected, currency restriction, embargo, public utility or common carrier or computer disruption due to the effects of a virus or other malicious code introduced other than through the acts or omissions of the party seeking relief; and
any other event which is not within the reasonable control of the party affected (which in the case of the Agreement includes the reasonable control of its subcontractors),
but does not include any act or omission of a party or a change in Law, legislation or government policy which from time to time regulates or affects the Services or the activities to which the Services relate during the term of this Agreement which has an increased cost effect on the delivery of the Services.
Grievance Mechanism means a process for handling a complaint or grievance about Modern Slavery practices that is consistent with the criteria set out in the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
GST means goods and services tax, sales tax or value-added tax, as defined in local applicable legislation.
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights means the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework available at https://www.ohchr.org/documents/publications/guidingprinciplesbusinesshr_en.pdf.
Indemnified Persons has the meaning given to that term in clause 27.1.
Insolvency Event means the occurrence of an event or circumstance that TA considers has or may have an adverse effect on the commercial or financial viability of the Supplier, the ability of the Supplier to perform its obligations under the Agreement, or the ability of TA to enforce its rights against the Supplier under or in connection with the Agreement.
Intellectual Property Rights means all present and future rights conferred by statute, common Law or equity in or in relation to any copyright, trade marks, designs, patents, circuit layouts, plant varieties, business and domain names, confidential information, inventions and other results of intellectual activity in the industrial, commercial, scientific, literary or artistic fields whether or not registered, registrable or patentable.
Invoice means an invoice correctly issued in accordance with Schedule 1.
Law means any statute, regulation, by-law, ordinance or subordinate legislation in force from time to time in the relevant jurisdiction and includes any industry codes of conduct.
Loss means any judgment, debt, damage, loss, cost, expense or liability howsoever arising and whether present or future, fixed or unascertained, actual or contingent whether at Law, in equity, or otherwise.
Material means material in any form (whether visible or not), including documents, advertisements (in print, electronic or recorded format), recordings on disc or any other form of storage, photographs, films, sound recordings, creative concepts, artwork, literary works, graphic works, musical works, models, designs, slogans, trade marks, trade names, logos, video tapes, transparencies, reports, products, equipment, information, data, software, software tools and software development methodologies, and includes all releases, updates and amendments to the original Material.
Maximum Aggregate Fee Amount means the amount specified in Schedule 1.
Meetings means the meetings specified in Schedule 1.
Milestones means the milestones specified in Schedule 1.
Modern Slavery Risk Management Plan has the meaning given in clause 24.3.
Modern Slavery has the same meaning as it has in the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth), as amended from time to time. 
Moral Rights means:
for authors, rights of integrity of authorship, rights of attribution of authorship, rights to not have authorship falsely attributed; and
for performers, rights of integrity of performership, rights of attribution of performership, rights to not have performership falsely attributed,
and rights of a similar nature conferred by statute, that exist or that may come to exist, anywhere in the world in any works or any part of any work in which copyright subsists that is created under this Agreement.
Notifiable Incident has the meaning given to it in clause 19.9.
Notice means an official notice or communication under the Agreement (as relevant) in writing, from one contract to the other contract, at the postal address, or email address, or facsimile number set out in Schedule 1 or as notified by the relevant party.
Personal Information means the definition set out in the relevant Privacy and Data Protection Laws. 
Personnel of a party means an employee, contractor, officer, director, auditor or advisor of that party but in the case of TA, does not include the Supplier.
Privacy and Data Protection Laws means in respect of a party, any Law, statute, declaration, decree, directive, legislative enactment, order, ordinance, regulation, rule or other binding instrument relating to the protection of personal data, including:  
the Directive 2002/58/EC (as amended) (the “e-Privacy Directive”);  
the Regulation 2016/679 (the “GDPR”);  
the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth); and 
any other applicable privacy and data protection Laws.
Professional Indemnity Insurance Amount means the amount specified in Schedule 1.
Professional Indemnity Insurance Period means the period specified in Schedule 1.
Public Liability Insurance Amount means the amount specified in Schedule 1.
Related Body Corporate has the meaning given in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Reports means the reports specified in Schedule 1.
Services means the services to be performed by the Supplier for TA in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, particulars of which are set out in Schedule 1.
Service Standards means the service standards specified in Schedule 1.
Significant Event means:
any adverse comments or findings made by a court, commission, tribunal or other statutory or professional body regarding the conduct or performance of the Supplier or its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors that impacts or could be reasonably perceived to impact on their professional capacity, capability, fitness or reputation; and/or
any other significant matters including the commencement of legal, regulatory or disciplinary action involving the Supplier or its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors that may adversely impact on compliance with Commonwealth policy and legislation or the Commonwealth's reputation.
Special Conditions means the special conditions specified in Schedule 1. 
Specified Personnel means the personnel specified in Schedule 1 as required to perform all or part of the work constituting the Services.
Subcontractor means:
any person engaged by the Supplier or by any other Supplier Related Body Corporate to perform all or part of any obligation of the Supplier relating to the Agreement; and
any person engaged by any of the people referred to in paragraph (a) to perform all or part of any obligation of the Supplier relating to the Agreement.
Supply Chain means any Subcontractor, agent, supplier or entity which contributes directly or indirectly to the supply or performance of the Contracted Items to TA, including entities in the network of business entities or individuals performing, providing, producing, handling, storing, transmitting or distributing:
an Artificial Intelligence System; or
components of an Artificial Intelligence System.
TA Data means:
data, information and other materials provided to, or obtained or generated by, the Supplier relating to TA or any of its operations, administration, facilities, suppliers, customers, Personnel, strategic or marketing plans, assets and programs (including Personal Information) (Raw Data); and
data, information and other materials in any format whatever generated, stored, processed, retrieved, printed or produced by or on behalf of the Supplier utilising the Raw Data.
TA Data Permitted Country means the countries to which the Supplier is permitted to transfer TA Data to or access TA Data from as outlined in Schedule 1. 
Term has the meaning given to that term in clause 3.2.
WHS Act means the Work Health and Safety Act 2011 (Cth).
Interpretation
In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
a capitalised term has the meaning given to that term in the Schedule or as defined in this Agreement, as the case may be;
clause and subclause headings are for reference purposes only;
the singular includes the plural and vice versa; 
where a word or phrase is defined its other grammatical forms have a corresponding meaning;
references to statutes include all statutes amending, consolidating or replacing such statutes;
$ means the lawful currency of Australia;
any reference to a party to this document includes its successors and permitted assigns; and
the use of the word "includes" or "including" is not to be taken as limiting the meaning of the words preceding it.
an expression importing a natural person includes a company, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other body corporate; and
a reference to a Law includes a constitutional provision, treaty, decree, convention, statute, regulation, ordinance, by-law judgment, rule of common law or equity or a rule of an applicable stock exchange and is a reference to that Law as amended, consolidated or replaced.
If any conflict arises between:
the Special Conditions in Schedule 1; 
the terms and conditions contained in the clauses of this Agreement;
any part of a Schedule (excluding the Special Conditions); and
any part of an attachment,
the earlier named item will prevail.
No confirmation, shipment or delivery docket, invoice or other similar document issued by or on behalf of the Supplier or any of its Personnel or TA (including the terms on any pre-printed purchase order form) will vary or form part of the Agreement.
Where the day on or by which something must be done is not a Business Day, that thing must be done on or by the following Business Day.
Headings are for convenience only and do not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
This Agreement is not to be interpreted against the interests of a party merely because that party proposed this Agreement or some provision in it or because that party relies on a provision of this Agreement to protect itself.
A term or expression starting with a capital letter:
which is defined in this Agreement, has the meaning given to it in this Agreement;
which is defined in the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) but is not defined in this Agreement, has the same meaning as given to it in that act; and
which is defined in Tourism Australia Act 2004 (Cth) but is not defined in this Agreement, has the same meaning as given to it in that act.
Term
TA engages the Supplier to provide the Services to TA on the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Supplier accepts that engagement.
This Agreement commences on the Commencement Date and will continue until the Expiration Date unless: 
TA, at its sole option, elects to extend this Agreement for one or more of the Extension Periods (if any) specified in the Schedule by written notice to the Supplier provided at least 30 days prior to the date of expiration of this Agreement; or
the Agreement is otherwise lawfully terminated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement,
(the Term).

TA is not obliged to extend this Agreement or enter into any further agreement with the Supplier.
Supplier obligations
Services
The Supplier must:
perform the Services as specified in Schedule 1, including the provision of any Deliverables, Reports and any other Contract Material;
prepare for, attend and ensure that relevant Personnel attend the Meetings;
adopt relevant best practice and any industry standards or guidelines specified by TA and meet or exceed the Service Standards;
comply with any reasonable directions given by TA from time to time; and
comply with the timeframe for the performance of the Services specified in Schedule 1, including any Milestones.
While on any premises occupied by TA, the Supplier will, and will ensure that any of its Personnel, behave in a manner acceptable to TA and must comply with all reasonable directions and procedures relating to security and occupational health and safety in effect at any premises occupied by TA, including the wearing of security passes.
The Supplier is responsible for the conduct of its Personnel at all times while engaged in performing the Services.
Subject to clause 33, neither the Supplier nor its Personnel assigned to perform the tasks are prevented from accepting work from other principals or using their own skill in any business in which they may lawfully be engaged during the Term or after its termination.
Delay and time for performance 
The Supplier must:
use its best endeavours to anticipate any potential failures by the Supplier to perform any of its obligations by the applicable then current Due Dates; and
take any and all steps necessary to avoid any failures of the type referred to in clause 4.5(a), including by implementing appropriate safeguards, systems and processes and, where necessary, reprogramming, expediting and adjusting its activities.
If the Supplier becomes aware of an actual or potential failure by the Supplier to perform any of its obligations by the applicable Due Date, the Supplier must:
immediately notify TA of that actual or potential delay specifying:
the cause of the delay; and
the impact of the delay, including any impacts on other Due Dates; 
ensure that any steps taken under clause 4.5 do not adversely impact the quality of the Contracted Items or result in any non-compliance with any of the Supplier's obligations under this clause 4.6. 
Nothing in clause 4.6 limits the liability of the Supplier to TA for failure to perform any of its obligations by the applicable Due Date. 
Personnel
The Supplier:
is solely responsible for making all deductions and performing all acts necessary in relation to the Supplier's Personnel under income tax legislation, superannuation legislation, payroll tax legislation, or other legislation which provides for long service leave or annual holidays to be paid; and
must pay and is solely responsible for all entitlements, whether relating to any contract or employment, long service leave, worker's compensation, superannuation, annual holidays or award entitlements of its employees or others who make their services available to the Supplier (including, the Supplier's Personnel in relation to the obligations set out in this Agreement).
The Supplier is fully responsible for the performance of the Services and for ensuring compliance with this Agreement and will not be relieved of that responsibility because of any:
subcontracting of the Services;
acceptance by TA of any Specified Personnel or replacement Personnel; or
payment made to the Supplier by TA.
TA’s public image
The Supplier must ensure that the Supplier and its Personnel provide the Services to TA in a manner which will not:
bring TA’s name into disrepute; or
otherwise damage TA’s reputation or overall public image, 
or threaten to do either of these things.
Co-operation with other agents
Where requested by TA, the Supplier must co-operate with any third party TA directs the Supplier to co-operate with, including another agency or contractor appointed by TA to provide services, to ensure the integrated and efficient carrying out of TA’s operations and provide such reasonable assistance to such other person as TA may request.
If TA directs the Supplier to co-operate with a third party as set out in clause 4.8, TA will provide the Supplier with details of the third party.
Value adding and continuous improvement 
The Supplier must encourage its Personnel to manifest a proactive approach to providing the Services.
The Supplier must meet with TA as requested by TA at any time during the Term to discuss suggestions from either party for areas of continuous improvement that will improve the Supplier’s efficiency, cost and management of the Services.
Compliance with TA policies and procedures
When providing the Services, the Supplier must comply with TA's policies and procedures as notified from time to time by TA to the Supplier. 
Disclosure
The Supplier must not:
represent or purport to represent TA, or express views or opinions purported to be representative of TA without the prior written agreement of TA;
disclose or make public any information or material acquired or produced in connection with this Agreement or providing the Services; or
engage in any misleading or deceptive conduct in relation to the Services,
the obligations of the Supplier under this clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
The Supplier acknowledges that Tourism Australia is an Australian Commonwealth Government entity and statutory authority, and as such, is subject to legislative and administrative accountability and transparency requirements including disclosures to the Australian Parliament and its committees and other disclosures pursuant to Australian legislation or Australian Commonwealth Government policy.  Notwithstanding any other clauses in this Agreement, TA may retain, and may publicly disclose, this Agreement, the Supplier's details or other information related to this Agreement, including any fees or payments under or pursuant to this Agreement.
Supply of Goods
Where, as part of the Services, the Supplier supplies parts, consumables or other goods:
the goods will be owned by, and all risk will pass to, TA from the date of delivery of the goods to TA; and
the Supplier must ensure that:
any goods (including consumables) are provided or used for the Services in a manner that minimises packaging waste;
the goods are fit for their intended purpose and comply with applicable Australian Standards;
TA obtains the full benefit of any warranties available in respect of the goods; and
if, when delivered or put into use by TA, the goods are defective in whole or part, they are promptly replaced or repaired at TA's sole discretion at no cost to TA.
Personnel
The Supplier must ensure that any of its Personnel involved in the performance of the Services:
have the necessary expertise, capacity and facilities required to perform the Services; and
will comply with all relevant obligations or conditions binding on the Supplier under this Agreement.
The Supplier agrees that the Specified Personnel will perform work in relation to the Services. If any Specified Personnel are unable to perform the work, the Supplier must notify TA immediately.
TA may at any time require the Supplier to cease to permit any particular Personnel (including any Specified Personnel) employed by it to be engaged or continue to be engaged in carrying out the Supplier's duties under this Agreement. 
If clause 6.2 or 6.3 applies, the Personnel will be replaced by the Supplier with the services of an alternative person acceptable to TA, use all reasonable endeavours to ensure continuity of involvement in the Services of all Personnel, and to ensure that new Personnel involved in the provision of the Services are properly trained, qualified, suitably skilled and inducted at no additional cost to TA.
Standards of performance
The Services must be performed by the Supplier:
exercising high professional standards of skill, care and diligence consistent with the standards of well managed operations performing services similar to the Services;
to ensure that the Services meet their purposes, are complete and are performed in a manner that achieves all Service Standards and any standards of performance included in or referred to in the Agreement;
to ensure maximum efficiency and effectiveness in the provision of the Services;
to ensure that TA is fully and accurately informed on all matters which are relevant to the Services;
to comply with any applicable or relevant ‘Standards Association of Australia Codes’.  If there are no ‘Standards Association of Australia Codes’ applicable, comply with any other industry standards;
to comply with all legal requirements, including statutory and regulatory requirements and safety standards; and
to ensure all obligations, including deadlines, specified in the Agreement are fully satisfied.
Where the Services include the provision of reports or the production of other documents or information, the Supplier must ensure that all:
reports or other documents or information contain all requested information and are accurate and not misleading in any respect;
working papers are neatly and legibly compiled and contain adequate information to demonstrate the nature and extent of the Services and sufficient evidence to substantiate all conclusions, findings and opinions;
observations, comments, conclusions and recommendations are in English and clearly explained and substantiated;
copies of all supporting documents are retained for review by TA if required; and
all advice provided orally or in writing is fit for purpose and specifically answers all issues and questions specified in or relevant to the Services in accordance with the Agreement.
Warranties
The Supplier warrants that:
it has and will continue to have, the skills, qualifications and experience to provide the Services in an efficient and controlled manner, with a high degree of quality and responsiveness and to a standard that at a minimum complies with this Agreement;
it will continuously seek to innovate and improve the performance of the Agreement and will inform TA of reduced costs as they occur and of any innovations and improvements; and
it will use adequate resources, including adequate numbers of appropriately qualified personnel, to perform the Services in accordance with this Agreement.
has full corporate power and authority to enter into, perform and observe its obligations under the Agreement and that the execution, delivery and performance of the Agreement has been duly and validly authorised by all necessary corporate action;
it enters into the Agreement on its own behalf and not in its capacity as a trustee for any trust;
it is, or will be at the relevant time, fully entitled to deal with the Intellectual Property Rights in the Contract Material in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; and
the Contract Material does not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights or Moral Rights of any person.
Invoices
The Supplier must provide TA with an Invoice for any amounts payable by TA under the Agreement.
The Supplier may issue an Invoice at the times and in the manner specified in Schedule 1.
Each Invoice must:
be calculated in accordance with the Agreement;
contain sufficient detail to enable TA to verify its accuracy; and
be in a form, and include all necessary information, for the Invoice to be a valid tax invoice for GST purposes and otherwise be in a form that complies with all other taxation requirements.
Subject to clauses 9.5 and Schedule 1 TA may require the Supplier to correct and reissue any incorrect Invoice, or cancel any Invoice not issued in accordance with the Agreement.
TA will be entitled to set-off any amounts that TA is otherwise legally entitled to recover from the Supplier under the Agreement or at Law against any amounts due by TA to the Supplier under the Agreement with 10 Business Days' notice.
Any exercise by TA of its rights under this clause will be without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to TA under the Agreement or otherwise.
Payment
Subject to clause 9.5 and the Supplier’s provision of the Services in accordance with this Agreement (including delivery by any applicable timeframe), TA will pay each Invoice that is correct and issued in accordance with the Agreement within 20 Business Days of the date on which TA receives the Invoice in the manner specified in Schedule 1.  The amount payable by TA to the Supplier is capped at the Maximum Aggregate Fee Amount and the Supplier is not entitled to receive any amounts above the Maximum Aggregate Fee Amount.
The Supplier must perform its obligations under this Agreement at its own cost and may not be reimbursed for any out of pocket expenses or disbursements incurred in connection with its provision of the Services other than as specified in Schedule 1.
TA may (in addition and without prejudice to any other right it may have) withhold or defer payment of any amount payable under this Agreement for so long as the Supplier has not completed, to the satisfaction of TA, that part of the Services to which the payment relates.
Taxes, duties and government charges
The Supplier acknowledges and agrees that TA makes no representations or warranties as to the amount and types of taxes to which the Supplier may be liable, whether in connection with this Agreement or otherwise.
Except as provided by this clause 11, the Supplier must pay all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the performance of this Agreement.
Unless otherwise indicated, all consideration for any supply made under this Agreement is inclusive of any GST imposed on the supply.
If one party (the supplier) makes a taxable supply to the other party (the recipient) under this Agreement, on receipt of a tax invoice from the supplier, the recipient must pay without setoff an additional amount to the supplier equal to the GST imposed on the supply in question.
No party may claim or retain from the other party under this Agreement any amount in relation to a supply made under this Agreement for which the first party may claim an input tax credit or decreasing adjustment.
Status of Supplier
For the purposes of this Agreement, the Supplier is an independent contractor and nothing in this Agreement constitutes a partnership between the parties, or makes either party the agent or employee of the other.  
Intellectual property
Ownership of Pre-Existing IP
Each party (or its licensors) will retain ownership of all Intellectual Property Rights subsisting in any material it provides or makes available to the other party under or in connection with the Agreement which is not Contract Materials (Pre-existing IP). 
License to use Pre-Existing IP
Each party grants to the other party a non-exclusive, royalty free licence to use, reproduce, modify and adapt its Pre-existing IP only to the extent necessary for the purpose of:
performing its obligations or exercising its rights under this Agreement; and
in the case of TA:
receiving the Services (including through use of the Contract Materials); and 
exercising its rights in the Contract Materials.
The licence granted to TA under clause 13.2:
is perpetual and irrevocable and will survive the termination or expiry of the Agreement for any reason; and
includes a right to sub-license the relevant licence rights to any agent, contractor, consultant, supplier or customer of TA for the purpose of enabling TA to enjoy the benefit of the Agreement.  
The licence granted to the Supplier under clause 13.2 is only granted for the Term and will immediately come to an end if the Agreement expires or is terminated for any reason.
No term, condition or warranty (whether express or implied) as to the nature, quality or fitness of TA's Materials shall form part of, or be a collateral term of, any contract between the parties.
Contract Material
Ownership of all Intellectual Property Rights newly created or newly developed by or on behalf of the Supplier:
to meet TA’s requirements under the Agreement;
in the course of providing the Services,
 (Contract Material) vests in TA from its creation.  The Supplier absolutely and unconditionally assigns, and must ensure that each of its Personnel assigns,  all of its right, title and interest in all Intellectual Property Rights in the Contract Material to TA and must do all things necessary to ensure that all rights and title in the Intellectual Property Rights in Contract Material passes to TA on the date of its creation.
TA grants to the Supplier a non-exclusive, royalty free licence to use, reproduce, modify and adapt the Intellectual Property Rights in the Contract Materials only to the extent necessary for the Supplier to provide the Services and perform its other obligations under the Agreement.  The licence granted to the Supplier under this clause is only granted for the term and will immediately come to an end if the Agreement expires or is terminated for any reason.
To the extent that any Contract Material is created by a third party:
the Supplier must, at its expense, ensure that the relevant third party absolutely and unconditionally assigns all of its right, title and interest in the Intellectual Property Rights in the Contract Material to TA;
the Supplier must immediately notify TA in writing before the creation of any Contract Material if it is unable to comply in any respect with clause 13.8(a); and
where the Supplier notifies TA under clause 13.8(b) that it is unable to obtain an assignment required by clause 13.8(a) and TA consents, in its absolute discretion, to the provision of a licence in respect of those unassignable Intellectual Property Rights, the Supplier must procure a licence in TA's favour that provides TA with the right to exercise all rights comprised in the copyright of the Contract Material (including the right to use, reproduce, adapt, perform and communicate that material to the public) for a period, and on terms, nominated by TA.
Moral Rights
The Supplier must procure the irrevocable consent of each creator of any part of any Contract Material in which copyright subsists or any performer who participates in or performs in any Contract Material in which copyright subsists, to allow TA in its absolute discretion to do or allow any third party to do any act or omission which would otherwise infringe any Moral Rights in the Contract Material.
The Supplier must obtain the consents and releases described in clause 13.9 in writing in substantially the same form as the form provided in Schedule 2.  The Supplier must provide TA with copies of each written consent obtained by the Supplier.
If the Supplier subcontracts any of its obligations under this Agreement in accordance with clause 34, the Supplier must procure that all subcontractors obtain written consents to all acts and omissions described in clause 13.9.
Trade marks
The Supplier will not, and will ensure that its Personnel and subcontractors do not, use TA's name or any trade mark owned or licensed by TA (TA Trade Marks) without the prior written consent of TA, and will submit a sample of the proposed use to TA for prior approval.
The Supplier must comply with all of TA's directions and guidelines concerning use of the TA's name or any TA Trade Mark, notified to the Supplier from time to time.
The Supplier must not use TA's name or any TA Trade Marks in a way likely to deceive or cause confusion or prejudice its distinctiveness or value or TA's goodwill or reputation.
The Supplier must provide all Contract Material to TA on request but may retain a copy of the Contract Material where it is necessary for it to do so for its own bona fide record keeping purposes. 
Use of Artificial Intelligence Systems
Approval required for use of Artificial Intelligence Systems
Where the Supplier intends to use an Artificial Intelligence System for the provision of the Contracted Items, it must, prior to the provision of the Contracted Items:
notify TA with details of the proposed Artificial Intelligence System technology and functionality relevant to the provision of the Contracted Items; and
obtain TA's prior written approval for such use.
Use of Artificial Intelligence Systems
Any use of an Artificial Intelligence System in connection with this Agreement, or provision of the Contracted Items, must at all times comply with:
all applicable Laws, regulations, policies and best practice relevant to responsible governance and use of Artificial Intelligence Systems, including:
the 'Policy for Responsible Use of AI in Government' as published, updated or replaced by the Commonwealth Digital Transformation Agency from time to time; 
the 'Voluntary AI Safety Standard' as published by the Australian Government Department of Industry, Science and Resources, or otherwise updated or replaced from time to time; and
all new Laws and regulations introduced during the term of this Agreement that apply the Supplier's use of an Artificial Intelligence System;
TA's approval and any conditions to the approval, if given; and
TA Policies, 
and any other requirements advised by TA from time to time.
The Supplier is fully responsible for the performance of this Agreement regardless of any use of an Artificial Intelligence System at any point in the Supply Chain used to provide the Contracted Items, including where the use of an Artificial Intelligence System is approved by TA.
Without limiting any other clause of this Agreement, if the Supplier uses any Artificial Intelligence System in the course of providing the Contracted Items, the Supplier must:
ensure the results, outputs or workings of the Artificial Intelligence System used in the course of providing the Contracted Items are accurate, transparent, explainable and justifiable, including by conducting quality assurance checks; and
provide, upon TA's request, a detailed explanation of how the Artificial Intelligence System generated specific outputs and the rationale behind them.
Where TA approves the use of an Artificial Intelligence System in the supplier of the Contracted Items, the Supplier must ensure that it retains, and provides to the Customer on request, detailed records of:
the Artificial Intelligence System used; 
the scope of the Artificial Intelligence System’s use in providing the Contracted Items;
any data collected, processed and stored by the Artificial Intelligence System; and 
any systems that the Artificial Intelligence System interacts with in connection with providing the Contracted Items.
Notwithstanding anything other provision of this Agreement, the Supplier is prohibited, without TA’s prior written consent, from reproducing, publishing, communicating, or otherwise using, in whole or in part, TA Pre-existing IP, Contract Material or TA Trade Marks to develop, train or direct, Generative Artificial Intelligence technology or models, including the mining or scraping of text, images or data from the TA Pre-existing IP, Contract Material or TA Trade Marks, whether undertaken by the Supplier or by third parties authorised, licensed or directed by the Supplier.
Privacy and information security
This clause 15 applies only to the extent that the Supplier deals with Personal Information in providing Services under this Agreement.
The Supplier must:
not input or disclose Personal Information into any form of Generative Artificial Intelligence System without TA’s prior written consent; 
use or disclose Personal Information obtained in the course of providing Services under this contract only for the purposes of this Agreement;
carry out and discharge the obligations contained in the Privacy and Data Protection Law as if it were bound by them;
not do any act or engage in any practice which would be a breach of, or would cause TA to breach, Privacy and Data Protection Law;
not use or disclose Personal Information for direct marketing, unless that use or disclosure is explicitly required under this Agreement;
not engage in an act or practice that would breach a Privacy and Data Protection Law, unless that act or practice is explicitly required under this Agreement;
comply with any directions, guidelines, determinations or recommendations referred to and provided to the Supplier, to the extent that they are consistent with the requirements of this clause 15; and
ensure that all Personnel required to deal with Personal Information for the purposes of this Agreement are made aware of the obligations of the Supplier set out in this clause 15.
The Supplier agrees to provide TA, or its nominee, relevant information (including personal information) relating to the Supplier, its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors, for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating or dealing with a fraud or security incident relating to the Agreement. When providing personal information of a natural person under this clause, the Supplier warrants it will have obtained the consent of or provided reasonable notification to the person in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). Nothing in these clauses limits or derogates from the Supplier’s obligations under the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth).
The Supplier agrees to notify TA immediately if it becomes aware of a breach or possible breach of any of the obligations contained in, or referred to in this clause 15, whether by the Supplier or a subcontractor, or the Personnel of the Supplier or subcontractor. 
The Supplier agrees to ensure that any subcontract entered into by the Supplier for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement imposes on the subcontractor the same obligations that the Supplier has under this clause 15 (including this requirement in relation to subcontracts).
Each party acknowledges and agrees that:
it must notify the other party as soon as reasonably practicable upon becoming aware of any unauthorised access to information, including Personal Information, it stores and handles and the extent and nature of that access (whether incidental or accidental access, or by any of its Personnel or subcontractors), and must comply with any reasonable directions of the other party in order to rectify the security incident; and 
it must, and must ensure that its Personnel and subcontractors, store and handle the Personal Information and information and its resources in premises and facilities that meet the minimum standards set by the Commonwealth under the Protective Security Policy Framework for storage and handling of such information, as applicable, of the relevant security classification level.
Information protection
This clause 16 applies where the Supplier is provided with or obtains through other means, TA Data in the course of providing the Services. 
The Supplier must not, and must ensure that its Personnel do not:
store or access TA Data at, or from, locations outside of Australia or any TA Data Permitted Country, or any locations other than the Sites, without the prior written consent of TA;
use TA Data for any purpose other than in connection with its supply of the Services;
purport to sell, let for hire, assign rights in or otherwise dispose of TA Data; and
alter TA Data in any way, other than to provide the Contracted Items in accordance with this Agreement.
The Supplier must:
ensure that all TA Data is signified as the property of TA and must not cause or have caused any pledge, lien, charge, mortgage, encumbrance of a third party or any other security interest to be placed on TA Data or any database (whether electronic or otherwise) in which such TA Data is stored; 
establish and maintain safeguards against the destruction, loss or alteration of TA Data in the possession, custody or control of the Supplier that comply with all Laws; and
maintain and back-up TA Data during the term of this Agreement in accordance with TA’s instructions, as applicable. The Supplier must perform any data restoration services forming part of the Services to meet or exceed the applicable Service Standards.  
The Supplier must ensure that any subcontract entered into for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement imposes on the approved subcontractor the same obligations that the Supplier has under this clause 16.
Upon request from TA, or otherwise pursuant to clause 28.1(c), the Supplier will return all TA Data to TA at no extra cost to TA in the manner and format reasonably required by TA.
Throughout the Term of the Agreement, the Supplier will regularly advise TA of any system, configuration or other requirements and instructions necessary for receipt and restoration of TA Data in the manner and format required pursuant to clause 16.5.
Notifiable Data Breach
If the Supplier suspects that there may have been an Eligible Data Breach in relation to any Personal Information held by the Supplier as a result of the Agreement, the Supplier must:
immediately report it to Tourism Australia and provide a written report within 3 Business Days; and 
carry out an assessment in accordance with the requirements of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth).  
Where the Supplier is aware that there has been an Eligible Data Breach in relation to the Agreement, the Supplier must: 
take all reasonable action to mitigate the risk of the Eligible Data Breach causing serious harm to any individual to whom the Personal Information relates;
take all other action necessary to comply with the requirements of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth); and 
take any other action as reasonably directed by Tourism Australia.
Confidential Information
The Supplier agrees not to disclose to any person, other than TA, any Confidential Information of TA other than in accordance with clause 18.2, without prior written approval from TA.
The Supplier may disclose Confidential Information of TA with its Personnel who have a need to know the information for the purposes of performing the Services, provided that the Supplier must ensure that its Personnel are aware of, and comply with, the obligations in this clause 18. The Supplier agrees, on request by TA, to arrange for its Personnel to give a written undertaking relating to nondisclosure of the TA’s Confidential Information in a form acceptable to TA. Inputting Confidential Information into, or disclosing to, any Artificial Intelligence System, will constitute disclosure for the purposes of this agreement.   
TA will keep any information in connection with the Agreement confidential to the extent it has agreed in writing with the Supplier to keep such specified information confidential.
TA will not be in breach of any confidentiality agreement if TA discloses Confidential Information of the Supplier to its Personnel in connection with this Agreement or related activities, within TA’s organisation or with another agency where this serves the Commonwealth’s legitimate interests, or if it is required to disclose the information by a Minister or a House or Committee of Parliament, or for accountability or reporting purposes.
The obligations in this clause 18 will not be breached where the relevant information:
is publicly available (other than through breach of a confidentiality or non disclosure obligation), or
is required to be disclosed by law, an order of a court or a stock exchange but in the case of disclosure by the Supplier, any such request must be reported by Notice to TA without delay and the text of the disclosure provided in writing to TA as soon as practicable.
The Supplier must return the Confidential Information to TA immediately on request or on the termination of this Agreement. The obligations of the Supplier under this clause survive the termination of the Agreement.
The Supplier acknowledges and must ensure that the Supplier's Personnel acknowledge that if the Supplier or its Personnel breach the obligations in clause 18, TA will suffer damage and an award of damages would be inadequate relief for a breach by the Supplier or its Personnel of the obligations in clause 18. The Supplier consents to TA obtaining an ex parte interlocutory injunction to restrain the Supplier or its Personnel from breaching the obligations in clause 18.
Nothing in this clause 18 derogates from any obligation which the Supplier may have either under the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) or under this Agreement in relation to the protection of personal information.
Work Health and Safety
The Supplier must ensure that the Services and the work conducted by the Supplier and any of the Supplier's Personnel complies with all applicable legislative requirements, standards and policies, and requirements of this Agreement, that relate to the health and safety of the Supplier, the Supplier's Personnel, TA's Personnel and third parties, along with TA’s workplace sexual harassment policies, complaints protocols and codes of conduct as notified to the Supplier from time to time.
The Supplier must comply with its obligations under any Applicable WHS Law, and must ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that its officers (as defined by Applicable WHS Law) and workers comply with their obligations under Applicable WHS Law. The other provisions of clause 19 do not limit this sub-clause.
The Supplier must ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health and safety of:
workers engaged, or caused to be engaged by the Supplier; and
workers whose activities in carrying out work are influenced or directed by the Supplier,
while the workers are at work in relation to this Agreement.  
The Supplier must ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the health and safety of other persons (including TA's Personnel) is not put at risk from work carried out under this Agreement.
The Supplier must consult, cooperate and coordinate with TA in relation to its work health and safety duties.  
Without limiting this Agreement, the Supplier must, on request, give all reasonable assistance to TA, by way of provision of information and documents, to assist TA and its officers (as defined in the WHS Act) to comply with the duties imposed under the WHS Act.
The Supplier must give all reasonable assistance to TA to assist TA in consulting with workers who carry out work for it (including, but not limited to, the Supplier's Personnel) who are, or are likely to be, directly affected by a matter relating to work health and safety.
TA may direct the Supplier to take specified measures in connection with the Supplier's work under this Agreement or otherwise in connection with the Services that TA considers reasonably necessary to deal with an event or circumstance that has, or is likely to have, an adverse effect on the health or safety of persons. The Supplier must comply with the direction. The Supplier is not entitled to an adjustment to the Fees, or to charge additional allowances or expenses, merely because of compliance with the direction.
If an event occurs in relation to the Supplier's work under this Agreement that leads, or could lead, to the death or, or an injury or illness to, a person (Notifiable Incident), the Supplier must: 
immediately report the matter to TA, including all relevant details that are known to the Supplier;
as soon as possible after the Notifiable Incident, investigate the Notifiable Incident to determine, as far as it can reasonably be done:
its cause; and
what adverse effects (if any) it will have on the Supplier's work under this Agreement, including adverse effects on risks to health and safety;
as soon as possible after the Notifiable Incident, take all reasonable steps to remedy any effects of the Notifiable Incident on health and safety;
as soon as possible after the Notifiable Incident, take all reasonable steps (including by instituting procedures and systems) to ensure that an event or circumstance of the kind that led to the Notifiable Incident does not recur;
within 3 Business Days after the Notifiable Incident, give TA a written report giving further details of the Notifiable Incident, including the results of the investigations required by clause 19.9(b) and a statement of the steps the Supplier has taken or that the Supplier proposes to take as required by clauses 19.9(c) and (d); and
within 3 months after the Notifiable Incident, give TA a written report giving full details of its actions in relation to the Notifiable Incident.
The Supplier’s obligations under this clause 19.9 are in addition to any reporting obligation that the Supplier has under a written Law.
The Supplier must fully co-operate, at its own cost, with any investigation by any government agency (including the Commonwealth) with respect to a Notifiable Incident, including parliamentary inquiries, boards of inquiry and coroner’s investigations.
The Supplier must not enter into any subcontract for the purpose of directly or indirectly fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement unless such a subcontract obliges the subcontractor to comply with equivalent provisions to those contained in this clause 19.
A word or expression in this clause 19 that is:
used or defined in an Applicable WHS Law; and
is not otherwise defined in this clause 19 or elsewhere in this Agreement,
has, for the purposes of this clause 19, the meaning given to it under the Applicable WHS Law.
Modern Slavery 
The Supplier must take reasonable steps to identify, assess and address risks of Modern Slavery practices in the operations and supply chains used in the provision of the Services. 
The Supplier will ensure Personnel responsible for managing the operations and supply chains used in the performance of the Agreement have undertaken suitable training to be able to identify and report Modern Slavery. 
Within one month of the Commencement Date, the Supplier will prepare and implement a plan for Modern Slavery risk management in relation to its performance of this Agreement  (Modern Slavery Risk Management Plan) and, if requested by TA, provide a copy of this plan to TA. The Modern Slavery Risk Management Plan should at a minimum detail:
the Supplier’s steps to identify and assess risks of Modern Slavery practices in the operations and supply chains used in the performance of the Agreement;
the Supplier’s processes for addressing any Modern Slavery practices of which it becomes aware in the operations and supply chains used in the performance of the Agreement; 
the content and timing of training for Personnel about Modern Slavery; and
the Grievance Mechanism/s available to Personnel.
The Supplier must comply with the Modern Slavery Risk Management Plan in its performance of this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this clause derogates from the Supplier’s other obligations arising under this Agreement or otherwise in relation to the provision of the Services.
If at any time the Supplier becomes aware of Modern Slavery practices in the operations and supply chains used in the performance of the Agreement, the Supplier must as soon as reasonably practicable:
take all reasonable action to address or remove these practices, including where relevant by addressing any practices of other entities in its supply chains; and 
take all reasonable steps to remediate any adverse impacts caused or contributed to by the Supplier from these practices in accordance with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Without limiting clause 20.5, in performing the Agreement, the Supplier must:
not require Personnel to pay fees, charges, expenses or financial obligations incurred in order for the Personnel to secure their employment or placement, regardless of the manner, timing or location of the imposition or collection of these recruitment fees;
not destroy or exclusively possess, whether permanently or otherwise, the travel or identity documents of Personnel; and
ensure Personnel can access a Grievance Mechanism to safely report any instances of Modern Slavery in the operations and supply chains used by the Supplier in its performance of this Agreement.
Sustainability
Where the Supplier’s activities are owned, managed or affiliated with TA, the Supplier must comply with the ‘Animal Welfare Policy’ of TA as notified from time to time by TA to the Supplier. TA can also request, and the Supplier must provide information about its sustainability policies.
A failure by the Supplier to comply with its obligations under this clause 21 will be a material breach of the Agreement. TA's rights under this clause 21 are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights TA may have under the Agreement. The performance by the Supplier of its obligations under this clause 21 will be at no additional cost to TA.
Compliance with Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption
The Supplier understands that TA is committed to strict compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws and represents and warrants that:
it is in compliance with all anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism, anti-bribery or anti-corruption Laws of Australia or any other jurisdiction by which the Supplier or TA is bound (Anti-Corruption Laws), and will remain in compliance with the Anti-Corruption Laws; and
it will not authorise, offer or make payments directly or indirectly to any Australian Government official or third party that would result in a violation of any applicable Anti-Corruption Law; and no part of the payment received by it from TA will be used for any purpose that could constitute a violation of any applicable Anti-Corruption Laws. 
Notwithstanding any other provisions to the contrary, TA may withhold payments under the Agreement and/or suspend or terminate the Agreement, without liability and without notice or at any time upon forming a reasonable belief that the Supplier may have violated, or may have caused Tourism Australia to violate, any applicable Anti-Corruption Laws. 
The Supplier understands that the National Anti-Corruption Commission (NACC) which is established by the National Anti‑Corruption Commission Act 2022 (Cth) has powers to investigate and report on serious or systemic corrupt conduct affecting the federal public sector. If the NACC commences an investigation of TA, or its officers, directors or employees, the NACC may compel the production of documents and oral evidence and override protections for privilege (including legal professional privilege and the privilege against self-incrimination). The Supplier represents and warrants it will comply with all relevant directions from the NACC in relation to any investigations of TA, its officers, directors and employees.  
Compliance with other Laws
The Supplier agrees, in carrying out this Agreement, to comply with all legislation of the Commonwealth or of any State, Territory or local authority, and in particular:
the Crimes Act 1914 (Cth);
the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth);
the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth);
the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Cth); and
the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Act 1999 (Cth) (EOWW Act).
The Supplier must not enter into a subcontract under this Agreement with a subcontractor named by the Director of the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency as an employer currently not complying with the EOWW Act.
The Supplier must:
ensure that all Contracted Items comply with applicable Laws; and
not perform any of its obligations in a way that causes TA to contravene any Law.
Compliance with the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct 
The Supplier must comply with, and ensure that it’s officers, employees, agents and Subcontractors comply with, the Code in connection with the performance of this Agreement.
The Supplier must: 
periodically monitor and assess its, and its officers’, employees, and agents compliance with the Code; and
on request from TA promptly provide information regarding:
the policies, frameworks or systems it has established to monitor and assess compliance with the Code; and 
the Supplier’s compliance with clause 24.1.
The Supplier must immediately issue TA a Notice on becoming aware of any breach of clause  24.1. The Notice must include a summary of the breach, the date that the breach occurred, and details of the personnel involved.
Where TA identifies a possible breach of clause 24.1 it may issue the Supplier a Notice, and the Supplier must, within 3 Business Days of receiving the Notice, either: 
where the Supplier considers a breach has not occurred: advise TA that there has not been a breach and provide information supporting that determination; or 
where the Supplier considers that a breach has occurred: issue a Notice under clause 24.3 and otherwise comply with its obligations under this clause 24. 
Notwithstanding clause 24.4(b), TA may notify the Supplier in writing that it considers that the Supplier has breached clause 24.1, in which case the Supplier must issue a Notice under clause 24.3 and otherwise comply with its obligations under this clause 24.
A failure by the Supplier to comply with its obligations under any part of this clause will be a material breach of the Agreement. 
Nothing in this clause or the Code limits, reduces or derogates from the Supplier’s other obligations under the Agreement. TA’s rights under this clause are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights TA may have under the Agreement. The performance by the Supplier of its obligations under this clause will be at no additional cost to TA.
The Supplier agrees that TA or any other Commonwealth agency may take into account the Supplier’s compliance with the Code in any future approach to market or procurement process.
Notification of Significant Events 
The Supplier must immediately issue TA a Notice on becoming aware of a Significant Event.
The Notice issued under clause 25.1 must provide a summary of the Significant Event, including the date that it occurred and whether any Specified Personnel or other personnel engaged in connection with the goods and/or Services were involved.
TA may notify the Supplier in writing that an event is to be considered a Significant Event for the purposes of this clause, and where this occurs the Supplier must issue a Notice under clause 25.1  in relation to the event within 3 Business Days of being notified by TA..
Where reasonably requested by TA, the Supplier must provide TA with any additional information regarding the Significant Event within 3 Business Days of the request.
If requested by TA, the Supplier must prepare a draft remediation plan and submit that draft plan to TA’s Contact for approval within 10 Business Days of the request
A draft remediation plan prepared by the Supplier under clause 25.5 must include the following information: 
how the Supplier will address the Significant Event in the context of the goods and/or Services, including confirmation that the implementation of the remediation plan will not in any way impact on the delivery of the goods and/or Services or compliance by the Supplier with its other obligations under the Agreement, and 
how the Supplier will ensure events similar to the Significant Event do not occur again, and 
any other matter reasonably requested by TA. 
TA will review the draft remediation plan and either approve the draft remediation plan or provide the Supplier with the details of any changes that are required. The Supplier must make any changes to the draft remediation plan reasonably requested by TA and resubmit the draft remediation plan to TA for approval within 3 Business Days of the request unless a different timeframe is agreed in writing by TA. This clause 25.7 will apply to any resubmitted draft remediation plan.
Without limiting its other obligations under the Agreement, the Supplier must comply with the remediation plan as approved by TA. The Supplier agrees to provide reports and other information about the Supplier’s progress in implementing the remediation plan as reasonably requested by TA.
A failure by the Supplier to comply with its obligations under this clause 25 will be a material breach of the Agreement. TA’s rights under this clause 25 are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights TA may have under the Agreement. The performance by the Supplier of its obligations under this clause 25 will be at no additional cost to TA. 
Default and termination
If the Supplier fails to satisfy any of its obligations under this Agreement, TA may:
immediately by notice in writing terminate this Agreement if it considers that the breach of the Supplier's obligation is not capable of remedy; or
if it considers that the failure is capable of remedy, by notice require that the failure be remedied within 7 Business Days or such other time specified in the notice and, if not remedied within that time, may terminate this Agreement immediately by giving a second notice,
and TA may recover from the Supplier any loss or damage suffered by TA.
TA may also by notice terminate this Agreement immediately (but without prejudice to any prior right of action or remedy which TA has or may have) if an Insolvency Event occurs in relation to the Supplier except to the extent the right to terminate is stayed by sections 415D, 434J or 451E of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Termination for convenience and reduction in scope
TA may at any time and at is discretion terminate this Agreement or reduce the scope of the Services by giving 30 Business Days written notice to the Supplier. Upon receipt of a notice under this clause, the Supplier must: 
as soon as practicable cease providing the Services as specified in the notice; and
continue work on any part of the Services not affected by the notice.
The Supplier acknowledges and agrees that, except as provided for in clauses 27.3, the Supplier is not entitled to any damages or compensation arising out of the termination of this Agreement by TA pursuant to this clause.
In the event that this Agreement is terminated under clause 27.1, TA will:
pay to the Supplier a proportion of the Fees representing that portion of the Services that have been duly completed; and
reimburse any expenses the Supplier unavoidably incurs relating entirely to Services not covered under clause 27.3(a).
TA shall not be liable to pay under the provisions of this clause any sum which, additional to any sums paid or due to or becoming due to the Supplier under the Agreement, would together exceed the full price of the Services ordinarily payable under this Agreement.
In the event of a reduction in the scope of the Services under clause 27.1, TA's liability to pay Fees and any other allowances or costs under this Agreement will, unless there is agreement in writing to the contrary, reduce proportionately with the reduction in the Services.
Return or destruction of TA Data 
On termination or expiry of this Agreement or any part of it, the Supplier must:
cease using all TA Data (or, in the case of partial termination or expiry, any part of the TA Data that relates solely to the terminated or expired part of the Agreement); 
promptly deliver to TA that TA Data in accordance with clause 16.5; and
if requested by TA, securely destroy any copies of that TA Data in the Supplier's possession or control (or in the possession or control of the Supplier's Personnel) following TA's receipt of that TA Data. 
The Supplier will provide TA with written confirmation that no TA Data, or any part thereof, has been retained or destroyed by the Supplier without the express written consent of TA. If requested by TA, the Supplier will provide proof of secure destruction of TA Data pursuant to this clause 28.
Recovery of overpayments
Where, prior to the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement or any reduction in scope pursuant to clause 27, TA has made any initial or advance payment to the Supplier, and any amount of such payment has not been expended in provision of the Services in accordance with this Agreement, then the Supplier must repay such amount to TA within 7 days of the date of such expiration or earlier termination or reduction in scope, and if that amount remains unpaid after that date, the amount shall be a debt due by the Supplier to TA and may be:
set off against any other amount due to the Supplier under this or any other Agreement between TA and the Supplier, or
recovered from the Supplier by TA in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Supplier indemnity
The Supplier at all times indemnifies TA and its Personnel (Indemnified Persons) and, holds the Indemnified Persons harmless from and against the full amount of any Loss (including any indirect or consequential loss, legal costs, expenses and damages) or liability incurred by Indemnified Persons, arising out of or in connection with:
the Supplier's breach of any provision of this Agreement; 
a contravention of Law:
by the Supplier or any of its Personnel; or
by TA as a result of an act or omission of the Supplier or any of its Personnel;
a Claim by a third party (whether or not that Claim is against TA or another person) relating to:
the Contracted Items s; or
an act or omission of the Supplier or its Personnel in connection with the Agreement, whether negligent, fraudulent or not;
the Supplier's breach of its confidentiality obligations;
any claim or action against an Indemnified Person that the receipt of the Services (including through the use of the Contract Materials and/or output of the Services) by TA infringes the rights (which may include the Intellectual Property Rights) of any third party; and/or 
any willful misconduct, fraudulent, unlawful or negligent act or conduct, or omission of the Supplier in connection with this Agreement. 
The Supplier's liability to indemnify TA under clause 30.1 will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent or unlawful act or omission of TA contributed to the relevant Loss.
Limitation on TA’s liability
Notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement and to the fullest extent permitted by Law:
TA is not liable, whether such liability is based on breach of contract, tort (including negligence), statute or otherwise for any special, indirect or Consequential Loss, indirect, incidental, punitive or special Losses of any kind (including loss of profits, opportunities, use or goodwill loss of opportunities or business interruption); and 
TA's maximum aggregate liability in connection with this Agreement will not exceed the Maximum Aggregate Fee Amount specified in Schedule 1.
Insurance
Insurance cover 
The Supplier must at its cost, take out and maintain for the Term:
public liability insurance written on an occurrence basis for an insured amount of not less than the Public Liability Insurance Amount per occurrence which covers the liability of the Supplier, and Personnel (including to TA) in respect of:
loss of, damage to, or loss of use of, any real or personal property; and
the personal injury of, disease or illness (including mental illness) to, or death of, any person (other than an employee of the insured),
arising out of the performance of the Services or the performance of this Agreement.  The insurance must include cover for TA's property in the care, custody or control of the Supplier with a sub-limit acceptable to TA;
professional indemnity or 'errors and omissions' insurance for an insured amount of not less than the Professional Indemnity Insurance Amount for each claim and in the aggregate any 12 month policy period, with one automatic right of reinstatement, which covers the liability of the Supplier arising from a breach of duty owed in a professional capacity or an error or omission in judgement by reason of any act or omission of the Supplier or the Supplier's Personnel.  The professional indemnity or 'errors and omissions' insurance must include cover for unintentional breaches of intellectual property and of trade practices related legislation; 
workers compensation as required by Law; and
the Additional Insurance Policies (if any) or any other insurance policies TA may otherwise reasonably require,
on terms acceptable to TA. In the case of professional indemnity insurance, the Supplier must also maintain this insurance for Professional Indemnity Insurance Period.
Insurance requirements
The Supplier must ensure that each insurance policy required to be taken out by it under the Agreement: 
is taken out with an insurer with a Standard & Poor’s financial strength rating of A or higher (or an equivalent, for example, AM Best’s “A”); and
complies with the Laws of the relevant jurisdictions in which the Supplier’s obligations are to be performed.
Evidence of insurances
The Supplier must, upon TA’s request, in respect of each insurance referred to in this clause 32 give TA:
acceptable proof of currency and coverage of the insurances before the commencement of this Agreement;
copies of all cover notes, certificates of currency, renewal certificates and endorsement slips, as soon as the Supplier receives them; and
other evidence of the insurances which TA reasonably requires, including a copy of the policies.
Compliance with policy
The Supplier must:
comply with all of the terms and conditions of any insurance policy taken out by it under this clause, including by punctually paying all premiums, commissions, stamp duties, charges, taxes and other expenses necessary for effecting and maintaining in force each such insurance policy; 
not do or omit to do anything which may prejudice any insurance policy taken out by the Supplier under this clause;
reinstate an insurance policy if it lapses and not cancel, vary or allow an insurance policy to lapse without the prior written consent of TA;
immediately notify TA of any event which may result in an insurance policy lapsing or being cancelled; and
takes all reasonable steps to avoid and mitigate losses or liabilities otherwise insured under the policies.
If the Supplier fails to satisfy any of its obligations under clause 32.1, after TA gives notice of the failure to the Supplier and the Supplier has had a reasonable opportunity (in the opinion of TA) to cure the failure, TA may effect and maintain (and the Supplier must provide all reasonable assistance and information to allow TA to effect and maintain) such insurance policies and pay the premiums as necessary and, in relation to insurances required by clause 32.1, and recover the amount from the Supplier.
Nothing in this clause prevents TA from taking out insurance and exercising its rights under clause 32.6 without notice to the Supplier if TA becomes aware that an insurance policy required under clause 32.1 has lapsed, or will soon lapse.
Conflict of interest
The Supplier warrants at the date of this Agreement and continues to warrant during the Term that no Conflict of Interest exists or is likely to arise in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement that has not been disclosed and consented to by TA in writing.
The Supplier must use best endeavours to ensure that a situation does not arise which may result in a Conflict of Interest.  The Supplier must not engage in any activity, subject to clause 33.3, that may result in a Conflict of Interest arising or continuing.
Where a Conflict of Interest arises or is likely to arise in the performance of the Supplier's obligations under this Agreement, the Supplier must immediately notify TA in writing and must follow all reasonable directions from TA to resolve or otherwise deal with the conflict.
Subcontracting
The Supplier must not subcontract the whole, or any part of the Services except:
with the prior written consent of TA; and
on such conditions as TA in its absolute discretion thinks fit.
TA may revoke its consent to a subcontractor on reasonable grounds at any time, without obtaining the Supplier's agreement to an amendment to this Agreement.
Despite any consent given by TA, the Supplier:
must ensure the work performed by any subcontractor meets the requirements of this Agreement in full;
is liable to TA for the acts or omissions (including negligent acts or omissions) of that subcontractor as if they were the acts or omissions of the Supplier;
must ensure that the subcontractor is immediately terminable if this Agreement is terminated; and
must ensure that the subcontract entered into contains clauses which impose obligations on the subcontractor and grants rights the same as the obligations imposed on and the rights granted by the Supplier in relation to:
Intellectual Property Rights;
Confidential Information;
privacy;
audit;
an indemnity;
compliance with legislation;
termination;
subcontracting;
assignment;
conflict of interest; or
resolution of disputes.
Child Safety 
If any part of the Services involves a party employing or engaging a person (whether as Personnel, or as a volunteer) who is required by applicable Law to have a ‘working with children check’ to undertake any part of the Services, each party must:
comply with all applicable Law relating to the employment or engagement of people who work or volunteer with children in relation to the Services, including mandatory reporting and working with children checks; and
if requested by the other party, provide an annual statement of compliance with this clause, in the form specified by the requesting party at the requesting party’s cost.
When child safety obligations may be relevant to a subcontract, the Supplier must ensure that any subcontract entered into by it for the purposes of fulfilling its obligations under the Agreement imposes on the subcontractor the same obligations regarding child safety that the Supplier has under this Agreement (including this requirement in relation to subcontracts).
Variations 
Either party may propose a change to the agreement or to any of the Services (Change) by submitting a notice to the other party describing the proposed Change in enough detail to enable initial consideration of the impact of that Change (Change Notice).  A Change Notice must state that it is a Change Notice under this clause.
A Change will be a Material Change if it will or is likely to have a material impact on:
the provision or receipt of the Services;
either party’s reasonable commercial expectations under the Agreement; or
the costs or expenses incurred by either party under or in connection with the Agreement.
A Change that is not a Material Change will be a Minor Change and a Minor Change will take effect when agreed in writing between authorised representatives of the parties. 
If the Change is a Material Change then, Supplier will provide a proposal to TA (Change Proposal) that may set out:
details of the activities required to implement the proposed Change including any specifications, special conditions and any amendments to the agreement required as a result of the proposed Change; 
revised deliverables and timeframes;
a statement of the estimated cost of implementing the Change and any variations to the fees; and
the impact, if any, of the Change on the charges and Supplier’s ability to deliver Services or achieve any Service Standards.
The relevant Change will take effect when TA notifies Supplier that TA accepts the Change Proposal and unless that occurs, the parties will continue to perform their respective obligations under the agreement as if the Change had not been proposed.
Each party will prepare and review Change Notices and Change Proposals, at its own cost and expense.
Disputes
A party claiming that a dispute has arisen must give written notice (Dispute Notice) to the other party setting out the nature of the dispute and all information relevant to the dispute, within 10 Business Days of becoming aware of the grounds for the dispute.
Within 5 Business Days of recipe of a Dispute Notice, the receiving party must respond outlining a proposed solution. At all times the parties must negotiate in good faith to resolve the dispute.
The parties must continue to perform their obligations under this Agreement during the period in which any dispute is being resolved under clause 36.2.
Subject to clause 36.5 each party will not initiate any action in court or take any other action in respect of a dispute until the parties have reasonably sought to resolve the dispute in accordance with clause 36.2 and no sooner than 30 Business Days from notification of the dispute.
Nothing in this clause 35 prevents a party from:
seeking urgent interlocutory relief from an appropriate court; or
undertaking action under or purportedly under any clause relating to termination or reduction in scope.
Public Interest Disclosures
The Supplier must familiarise itself with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013 (Cth) and acknowledges that public officials, including service providers and their subcontractors under a Commonwealth contract, who suspect wrongdoing within the Commonwealth public sector may raise their concerns under the Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013 (Cth). Information for disclosers is available at https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/Our-responsibilities/making-adisclosure.
Assignment
TA may dispose of, declare a trust over, or otherwise create an interest in its rights under this Agreement without the consent of the Supplier, and may disclose to any potential holder of the right or interest any information relating to this Agreement or any party to it.
The Supplier cannot assign, encumber, declare a trust over or otherwise create an interest in its rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of TA.
The Supplier must not consult with any other person or body for the purpose of entering into an agreement which will require novation of the Agreement, without first consulting TA.
Audit and access
The Supplier must keep adequate accounts, documents and records in sufficient detail to allow TA to determine the Supplier's compliance with the Agreement and the accuracy of its Invoices.
The Supplier agrees:
TA may conduct audits from time to time to confirm the Supplier's compliance with the Agreement and to enable TA to meet applicable contractual, regulatory and internal management requirements;
to give TA, its Personnel (including internal and external auditors and advisors), or any persons authorised in writing by TA, full access at all reasonable times to the Supplier's Personnel, premises, books, records, documents, information, computer systems, equipment and other property, and data in the possession or control of the Supplier or any Supplier Personnel (other than any data or information containing the Supplier or its subcontractor's costs and margins or of a financially sensitive nature), for the purposes of obtaining information in relation to the Agreement; and
to permit those persons to inspect and take copies of any material relevant to the Agreement.
The rights referred to in clause 39.1 are subject to:
TA providing reasonable prior notice;
TA and its Personnel complying with the Supplier's reasonable security procedures; and
if appropriate, execution of a deed of confidentiality relating to non-disclosure of the Supplier's Confidential Information.
For the purpose of complying with this clause 39, the Supplier must promptly and efficiently give TA and its Personnel any assistance they reasonably require.
Without in any way affecting the statutory powers of the Auditor-General under the Auditor-General Act 1997 (Cth), and subject to the provisions of that Act, the Auditor-General is a person authorised for the purposes of this clause 39.
Notice
Any notice under this Agreement must be given in writing and be addressed as set out in the Schedule.
Any notice given under clause 40.1 is deemed to have been received:
if delivered personally - on the actual date of delivery if delivered before 5:00pm on a Business Day to either party's address specified herein, or on the Business Day following the actual date of delivery if delivered after 5:00pm on a Business Day or on a non-Business Day to either party’s address specified herein;
if sent by domestic mail - on the third Business Day after posting, or if sent by international mail – on the seventh Business Day after posting; or
by email - if it is transmitted by 5.00 pm (Sydney time) on a Business Day – on that Business Day; or if it is transmitted after 5.00 pm (Sydney time) on the Business Day, or on a day that is not a Business Day – on the next Business Day.
Force majeure
If the Supplier is wholly or partially unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement because of a Force Majeure Event then: 
as soon as reasonably practicable (and in any event no later than 10 days) after the Force Majeure Event arises, the Supplier must notify TA and advise:
the full particulars of the Force Majeure Event;
an estimate of its likely duration;
the obligations affected by it and the extent to which the Supplier is unable to perform those obligations;
the steps taken to rectify it; and
the Supplier's obligations under this Agreement will be suspended to the extent to which they are affected by the relevant Force Majeure Event as long as the Force Majeure Event continues. 
The Supplier must use its best endeavours to remove, overcome or minimise the effects of that Force Majeure Event as quickly as possible.  However, this does not require the Supplier to settle any industrial dispute in any way it does not want to.
If a delay by the Supplier arising directly out of a Force Majeure Event exceeds 30 days, TA may immediately terminate the Agreement on providing written notice to the Supplier and clause 27 will apply as though the Agreement were terminated pursuant to that clause.
Waiver
A failure or delay by a party to exercise any right or remedy it holds under this Agreement or at Law does not operate as a waiver of that right.
A single or partial exercise by a party of any right or remedy it holds under this Agreement or at Law does not prevent the party from exercising that right again or to the extent it has not fully exercised that right.
Survival
Unless the contrary intention appears, the expiry or earlier termination of this Agreement will not affect the operation of any provision relating to:
Intellectual Property Rights;
Confidential Information;
Privacy;
Audit;
Compliance with other Laws;
Representations made by the Supplier;
an indemnity; or
any other provision which expressly or by implication from its nature is intended to continue.
General
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement.
This Agreement may not be amended or varied unless the amendment or variation is in writing and signed by all parties 
This Agreement is governed by, and constructed in accordance with the Laws of New South Wales, Australia. The parties submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of New South Wales, Australia.
This Agreement constitutes and contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the Services, and supersedes, any prior or contemporaneous agreements, oral or written. There are no promises, terms, condition or obligations, oral or written, expressed or implied, other than those contained herein.
In the event of any inconsistency between the English language version of this Agreement and any other language translation, the English language drafting shall take precedence.
Schedule 2 : Sample Moral Rights Consent Form
DATE:
I, ______________________________, [position], at [company], of [address] unconditionally and irrevocably, to the extent permitted by Law:
consent to any acts or omissions (that may occur before or after this consent is given), that would otherwise infringe my Moral Rights in the Works created by me [in the course of my employment with] / [in the provision of the Services to] [company], including:
any alteration to or deletion from the Works;
any use of the Works that does not identify me as the author of the Works;
any use of the Works that may falsely attribute authorship of the Works to any other person;
waive all Moral Rights I might hold outside of Australia, in the Works created by me [in the course of my employment with] / [in the provision of the Services to] [company],
for the benefit of Tourism Australia ABN 99 657 548 712, its licensees, successors in title and anyone authorised by Tourism Australia to do any acts comprised in the copyright throughout the world.
In this deed:
"Moral Rights" means rights of integrity of authorship, rights of attribution of authorship, rights not to have authorship falsely attributed, and rights of a similar nature conferred by statute, that exist, or that may come to exist, anywhere in the world in the Works and includes Performers' Moral Rights.
"Performers' Moral Rights" means rights of integrity of performership, rights of attribution of performership, rights not to have performership falsely attributed, and rights of a similar nature conferred by statute, that exist, or that may come to exist, anywhere in the world in relation to the Works.
"Services" means [insert description of services performed].
"Works" means any copyright work created, produced or reproduced by me, specifically relating to the [provide brief description of works created].
Execution 
Executed as an agreement 



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: PRO-TENCM-Attachment 1 Tender Response Schedule-PROCFY26078.docx
============================================================

ATTACHMENT 1
TENDER RESPONSE SCHEDULE
Overview
Responding to this Request for Tender
In responding to this opportunity, tenderers must lodge a structured response in line with this response schedule.
The key sections are summarised in the table below:
Tenderer’s Details
Corporate Profile
Tenderers must complete the following table:
Legal and Operational Capacity (North America)
As a mandatory Condition for Participation, the successful supplier must demonstrate a legitimate, legally compliant operational presence in the target (United States of America).
Subcontractors and Offshore Arrangements
Tenderers must provide transparent disclosure of all intended third-party or offshore subcontracting arrangements, specifically detailing the precise scope of tasks to be outsourced.
Client References
Please provide details for three (3) referees who can attest to your firm's capability and experience in delivering services similar in nature and complexity to the requirements outlined in this tender. Referees must be from external client organizations; Tourism Australia employees are not permitted to be cited as referees.
Conflicts of Interest
Tenderers must must disclose any relevant conflicts of interest, actual, potential, or perceived, that may impact the delivery of the services or the commercial interests of Tourism Australia. As a mandatory Condition for Participation, tenderers must explicitly detail any current or recently concluded engagements with competing national tourism organisations (e.g., Tourism New Zealand, Destination Canada), Australian State and Territory tourism bodies, or other relevant regional tourism entities.
Copy and paste the fields for additional conflicts as required. If no conflicts exist, please state "Nil to declare".
Modern Slavery and Ethical Employment
Modern Slavery Risk Management 
As a mandatory Condition for Participation, tenderers must demonstrate an active commitment to identifying, assessing, and addressing modern slavery risks within their operations and multi-tier supply chains. Tenderers must complete TA’s Modern Slavery Questionnaire via the provided link.
Compliance with Draft Contract
Instructions for your Compliance with Draft Contract Statement
Tenderers are required required to review the Draft Contract provided at Attachment 3 and formally state their level of compliance. Please follow the instructions below to complete this section:
Full Compliance: If you are fully compliant with all terms and conditions of the Draft Contract, delete the example rows in the template below and input “Fully Compliant”.
Partial or Non-Compliance: If you propose to negotiate, or cannot comply with specific clauses, you must list each relevant clause in the table below, providing a clear rationale for the departure and your proposed alternative wording.
Tracked Changes Requirement: In addition to completing the table below, you must submit a copy of the Draft Contract with tracked changes (mark-ups) reflecting all proposed amendments.
Legal Review: Please note that any proposed changes will undergo a formal legal review as part of the evaluation process to assess their impact on risk and Value for Money.
Confidentiality
If relevant, tenderers must identify any provisions of the draft contract that should be kept confidential and detail reasons why.
Tenderer’s Declaration
Tenderer’s Declaration
Tenderers must complete the following declaration when submitting their proposals to TA.
In accordance with section 3 of this RFT I, [NAME, ADDRESS AND OCCUPATION OF PERSON MAKING THE DECLARATION], on behalf of the Respondent, acknowledge that, by lodging this response, each of the acknowledgements, including all the conditions in this RFT and Response Schedule, have been read and understood. The Respondent will comply with them as and when they are applicable. 
I understand that I should seek my own independent legal and other professional advice on the implications of submitting a response and on otherwise entering into a binding contract with Tourism Australia on terms that may be similar to the proposed contract attached or on terms as they are yet to be negotiated. 
I, on behalf of the Respondent, also make the following declarations:
That I have the requisite power and the authority to sign for and on behalf of the Respondent; and
Confirm that the Respondent has read and complies with the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct ; and
That the Respondent is financially solvent and not in the process of administration or of being wound up and is not otherwise seeking to have either of these processes applied following the date of this declaration; and
That the Respondent is not bankrupt and not currently in the process of initiating or seeking to initiate bankruptcy proceedings; and
That there are currently no unsettled judicial orders that have been made against the Respondent—and to the best of the Respondent’s knowledge, any proposed subcontractors—that relate either to employee entitlements or to any matter with regards to the Work Health and Safety Act 2011; and
That the Respondent has not been listed as a non-complying entity by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency as a result of having failed to comply with the annual requirement to report on gender equality pursuant to the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012; and
That the Respondent understands and is willing to cooperate with Tourism Australia’s public disclosure requirements; and
That the Respondent is willing to cooperate with Tourism Australia’s public accountability requirements under the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 (Cth), including, where relevant, to its Supplier Code of Conduct, Fraud and Corruption Policy, and Public Interest Disclosure Policy; and
That the Respondent has the capacity and resources required to supply the services/goods described in this response without restriction; and
That the Respondent currently has all insurances requested as they may be described in this response documentation and where the Respondent does not hold the requisite insurance, undertakes to obtain it as a condition of any contract entered into with Tourism Australia for goods and/or services covered by this RFT; and
That the Respondent has the necessary qualifications and registrations required to supply for goods and/or services covered by this RFT; and
That the information in this document is both true and accurate. The Respondent understands that giving false or misleading information to a Commonwealth entity is a serious offence under section 137.1 of the schedule to the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth). Accordingly, the Respondent agrees to ensure that any subcontractor engage in connection with any contract with Tourism Australia is also aware that this is an offence; and
That the Respondent has not prepared this submission using any information acquired through a breach of any duty of confidentiality owed me; and
That the Respondent has not attempted to, and will not attempt to, improperly influence an officer of the Commonwealth in connection with the preparation or assessment of my response to the RFT; and
That no conflict of interest exists, or is likely to arise, other than those indicated, that would affect the performance of my obligations, including the Respondent’s obligations if it was to enter into a contract with Tourism Australia; and
That the details of this response, including any Commonwealth confidential information or personal information provided to the Respondent for the purpose of enabling the preparation of this response, will not be disclosed or improperly used; and
That, if at any time following the declarations made above and prior to entry into a contract with Tourism Australia, anything changes that would otherwise make any part of the declarations incorrect, the Respondent will advise Tourism Australia of that change within seven (7) calendar days of becoming aware of the change.
That the Respondent warrants that all personnel, including key project resources and third-party contractors, will be provided with fair and ethical working conditions in absolute compliance with all relevant local labour and workplace health and safety laws in the North American jurisdictions of delivery; and
That the Respondent agrees, if shortlisted, to undergo an external financial viability assessment conducted by Tourism Australia or its nominated third-party financial advisors prior to any contract award.
If tenderers are unable to make any of the above declarations, they must immediately notify the Contact Officer.



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: PRO-TENCM-Clarification Questions Addendum v1-PROCFY26078.pdf
============================================================

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDENDUM NOTiCE [1] 
PROJECT REF #PROCFY26078 
 
Communications as of 24 July 2026: 
 
Q#. 
QUESTION 
ANSWER 
1.  
Regarding the Scope of Requirements for a "highly 
experienced EMC with a proven, verifiable history 
of delivering high-profile, complex B2B and luxury 
trade events within the North American market": If 
a tenderer possesses extensive global experience 
delivering large-scale tradeshows, but their specific 
North American experience is primarily in 
delivering complex conferences and incentive 
programmes, will this satisfy the requirement? 
The tenderer experience as described would 
meet TA's requirements for this RFT. 
2.  
Scope of Requirements - Does this RFP go to 
North American based EMCs? 
The RFT has been advertised to North American 
EMCs.  
3.  
Scope of Requirements - From 2022 onwards, 
has TA ever used an Australian based EMC to 
help produce any Australia Marketplace North 
America events? 
The question is outside the scope of the RFT 
procurement. 
4.  
Australia Marketplace North America 
(September 2027 and September 2029) - Is 
there any available breakdown for 
accommodation of single vs shared vs twin 
rooms? Is there a reason for a total of 250 
delegates but only 225 rooms requested? 
No specific breakdown of room options. Total 
room requirement is set to cover anticipated 
accommodation needs based on prior 
Marketplace events.     

Addendum Notice [1] – Event Management Services: North America 2027-2029 
Tourism Australia 
Page 2 of 2 
5.  
Australia Marketplace North America 
(September 2027 and September 2029) - For 
the destination for 2029, are you just after a 
destination recommendation or do you require 
three hotel options within the destination, as per 
2027? 
The listing of three venue options is required for 
AMNA 2027 only. For AMNA 2029, only an outline 
of how the tenderer would approach sourcing for 
the undetermined US destination is required.  
6.  
Australia Marketplace North America 
(September 2027 and September 2029) - Is the 
prospectus for the Gold Sponsor (USD $20K to 
$30K) a per year amount for 2027 and 2029?  
The prospectus amount for the Gold Sponsor is 
for the 2027 AMNA event only. 
7.  
Signature Experience Luxury Showcase 
(January to June 2028) - Are we to suggest the 
two other cities apart from NYC that we 
recommend for this roadshow? 
Only the New York venue submission is required 
for evaluation. Tenderers can suggest additional 
city locations as part of their overall submission.  
8.  
Signature Experience Luxury Showcase 
(January to June 2028) - Can you give some 
indication of timings, e.g one city every 2 months 
between January and June, or are timings open 
to our interpretation?  
The Luxury showcase events will be held 
consecutively over an approximately 2-week 
period. The timing for when the NYC event is held 
within the Jan-June 2029 timeframe is at the 
tenderer's recommendation. 
9.  
Signature Experience Luxury Showcase 
(January to June 2028) - Are we required to 
manage freight services from city to city of all 
event collateral?  
Yes. Based on previous Luxury showcases, 
though, there have been minimal freight 
shipment requirements and generally limited to 
signage, small decor items, and collateral. 
10.  
Signature Experience Luxury Showcase 
(January to June 2028) - Are we to manage 
flights for TA hosts to each city? 
No. 
11.  
Business Events Australia North American 
Showcase (July 2028) - If we are to suggest the 
city for this event, the brief is very broad - 
Propose a strategic program format, ideal event 
dates, recommended city location, and a 
specific venue that best serves the target 
audience. – We know the target audience are 
corporate and incentive buyers, but what type? 
Luxury? Groups? Leisure travel? Executive 
travel? Study trips? 
The target audience will be North America based 
incentive buyers. We will be targeting 3rd party 
meeting planners who represent incentive 
houses and independent companies booking 
incentive programs. Some of these planners will 
be booking executive trips and larger groups.  
12.  
Business Events Australia North American 
Showcase (July 2028) - Has this specific event 
been held before, and if so, where? 
This single-city Business Events Showcase event 
is a new format and would replace a previous 
multi-city roadshow format. 
 
 


