================================================================================
AUSTENDER DETAILS: Current ATM View - SRC006427
================================================================================

Detail URL: https://www.tenders.gov.au/Atm/Show/c3fa077d-b9ac-4d56-b7f6-26e0d261cedf
Scraped At: 2026-08-13 00:15:25

STRUCTURED ATTRIBUTES:
----------------------------------------
ATM ID: SRC006427
Agency: Australian Electoral Commission
Category: 56101500 - Furniture
Close Date & Time: 13-Aug-2026 2:00 pm (ACT Local Time) Show close time for other time zones
Publish Date: 25-Jun-2026
Location: ACT, NSW, VIC, SA, WA, QLD, NT, TAS
ATM Type: Request for Tender
Multi Agency Access: No
Panel Arrangement: Yes
Multi-stage: No
Description: Please see attached documents.
Other Instructions: 
Conditions for Participation: Notwithstanding the use of 'must', 'shall', 'will' or other mandatory language, no other requirement in this RFT is to be treated as a ‘Condition for Participation’.
Timeframe for Delivery: Please see attached Statement of Requirements.
Address for Lodgement: Via AusTender.
Addenda Available: View Addenda

================================================================================


============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Addendum 2 - SRC006427.pdf
============================================================

                                                                      
 
Page 1 | Addendu 2– SRC006427 
ADDENDUM  
 
ATM Number: 
SRC006427 
Addenda Number: 
2 
Title: 
Request For Tender for provision of furniture, 
warehousing and other equipment for Electoral 
Events 
Date: 
30 July 2026 
Pages to this Addendum: 
1 
Attachments to this 
Addendum: 
1 
Background: 
This addendum includes the draft agreement, revises the closing date for submissions and 
enquiries, and notifies suppliers of a new email address for further enquiries. 
Details: 
#  
 
1. Please refer to AusTender to find a copy of the draft agreement 
 
2. All submissions are to be made via AusTender by 13 August 2026, 2pm 
 
3. All enquiries must be submitted no later than 11 August 2026 
 
4. All enquiries must be directed to scmprocurement@aec.gov.au 
 
 




============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Request for Tender - SRC006427.docx
============================================================

Contents
1.	RFT details	5
2.	Overview	6
2.1	Introduction	6
2.2	About the AEC	6
2.3	Definitions and interpretation	7
2.4	Objectives and expected outcomes	10
2.5	Indicative timetable	10
2.6	Intention to respond	10
2.7	Public Interest Certificate	10
3.	Communications	10
3.1	AusTender, the Australian Government Tender System	10
3.2	Communications with the AEC	11
3.3	Clarifications, addenda and other notices	11
3.4	Responsibility of Tenderers	11
4.	Requirements of Tenders	12
4.1	Conditions for Participation	12
4.2	Minimum Content and Format Requirements	12
4.3	Format of Tender	12
4.4	Executive summary	12
4.5	Consents for security, probity and financial checks	12
4.6	Contracting with a single legal entity	13
4.7	Alternative Tenders	13
5.	Lodgement process	13
5.1	RFT Closing Time	13
5.2	Lodgement through AusTender	13
5.3	Preparing to lodge a Tender	13
5.4	Electronic lodgement process	14
5.5	Late Tenders, incomplete Tenders and corrupted files	14
5.6	Proof of electronic lodgement	14
5.7	AusTender security	15
5.8	Corrections and additions	15
5.9	Unintentional errors of form	15
5.10	Clarification of Tenders by the AEC	15
6.	Evaluation	16
6.1	Overview	16
6.2	Evaluation Criteria	16
6.3	Evaluation approach	17
6.4	Stage 1 – Initial screening	17
6.5	Stage 2 – Assessment against the Scored Evaluation Criteria	18
6.6	Stage 3 – Assessment of Best Value for Money Overall	18
7.	Negotiation	19
7.1	Negotiation process	19
7.2	Conduct of negotiations	19
8.	Notification of outcome and debriefing	19
9.	Other terms and conditions	19
9.1	Ownership of Tender documents	19
9.2	Ownership of Intellectual Property Rights in RFT and Tender	20
9.3	Tender Validity Period	20
9.4	Political neutrality and Conflict of Interest	20
9.5	Tenderer conduct	21
9.6	Due diligence	21
9.7	Return of Information	21
9.8	Confidentiality of Tenderer information	22
9.9	Change affecting Tenderer	22
9.10	Publicity	23
9.11	No contract or undertaking	23
9.12	AEC's rights	23
9.13	Tenderer's acknowledgment	25
9.14	Responsibility for Tender costs	26
9.15	Applicable law	26
9.16	Complaints	26
10.	Applicable laws and policies	27
10.1	Commonwealth procurement	27
10.2	Coordinated procurement	27
10.3	Indigenous Procurement Policy	28
10.4	Access and disclosure regimes	28
10.5	Workplace Gender Equality	29
10.6	Environmental policy and procurement	29
10.7	Employee entitlements	30
10.8	Illegal workers	30
10.9	Lobbying Code of Conduct	30
10.10	Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct	30
Schedule 1 - Statement of Requirements	31
Schedule 2 - Draft Deed of Standing Offer	32
Schedule 3 - Tender Form	33
Annexure A – Contact details	34
Annexure B – Tenderer’s Declaration (Deed Poll)	35
1.	Authority	35
2.	Definitions and interpretation	35
3.	The offer and change of circumstances	36
4.	Tenderer's conduct	36
5.	Costs	37
6.	Political neutrality and Conflict of Interest	37
7.	Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth)	37
8.	Lobbying Code of Conduct	38
9.	Supplier Code of Conduct	38
10.	Employee entitlements	38
11.	Black economy procurement connected policy	38
12.	Laws	38
13.	Security, probity and financial checks	38
14.	Acknowledgement and agreement	39
15.	Governing law	39
Annexure C – Executive summary	40
Annexure D – Pricing Schedule	41
Annexure E – Financial and commercial capacity	42
Annexure F – Compliance Statement	45
Annexure G – Understanding of and approach to the Services	47
Annexure H – Track record	49
Annexure I – Management of Changed Requirements at Short Notice	50
Annexure J - Experience and qualifications of Specified Personnel	51
Annexure K – Value Added Services	52
Annexure L – Tenderer Confidential Information	53
Annexure M – Conflict of Interest	54
Annexure N – Risk Management Plan	55
Annexure O – Indicative Delivery Timings	57
Request for Tender – Terms and Conditions	
RFT details
Overview
Introduction
The Commonwealth of Australia represented by the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) invites Tenders to respond to this Request for Tender (RFT) for the Services.
Detailed information on the AEC's requirements for the Services is contained at Schedule 1 to this RFT (Statement of Requirements).  
Tenderers should refer to clause 2.3 when reading this RFT for guidance on defined terms and how clauses are to be interpreted. 
Tenders should be in the form set out in Schedule 3, including all of its Annexures.
Tenders should be submitted in accordance with clause 5 of this RFT. The AEC will exclude from the evaluation process a Tender that does not satisfy each of the Mandatory Requirements.  
Tenders will be assessed against the Evaluation Criteria.
About the AEC
The AEC is a Commonwealth agency responsible for conducting federal Electoral Events and maintaining the Commonwealth electoral roll. The AEC is also responsible for undertaking electoral research, promoting community awareness of electoral and Parliamentary matters, and assisting in the conduct of approved international elections and industrial election events.
The AEC's website is at http://www.aec.gov.au.  AEC offices are organised geographically, with a National Office in Canberra, seven state and territory offices and Divisional Offices in or near each of the electoral Divisions.
Definitions and interpretation
Unless the context dictates otherwise:
terms defined in the Deed of Standing Offer or the Statement of Requirements have the same meaning in this RFT; and
the interpretation clause of the Deed of Standing Offer applies to the interpretation of this RFT.
All other capitalised terms are defined as follows for the purposes of this RFT. To the extent of any inconsistency, terms defined below will prevail over those in the Deed of Standing Offer or Statement of Requirements.
If there is any inconsistency between any provisions of this RFT the following provisions will prevail in descending order, to the extent of the inconsistency:
these Request for Tender – Terms and Conditions (clauses 1 to 10);
Schedule 2 – Draft Deed of Standing Offer;
Schedule 1 – Statement of Requirements; and
Schedule 3 – Tender Form.
Objectives and expected outcomes
The AEC expects to identify Service Providers to deliver the Services on a best value for money overall basis. 
The AEC intends to set up a panel of Service Providers, all of whom are engaged under a Deed of Standing Offer. Further information on panel arrangements is available on the Department of Finance website.
The proposed Initial Deed Period of the Deed of Standing Offer is set out in Item 7, with the Deed Option Period specified in Item 7 (if any), exercisable at the AEC’s discretion. 
Partial Tenders will only be accepted if specified in Item 8.
Indicative timetable
The proposed timetable for the release of this RFT and submission of Tenders is set out in Items 2 and 3. 
Details of any industry briefing are set out in Item 11.
The proposed timetable for the Tender evaluation process is set out in Item 9. This proposed timetable is provided for convenience only and does not identify all activities relating to this RFT process or the evaluation of Tenders. The AEC may change the proposed timetable at its absolute discretion without notification to Tenderers.
Intention to respond
Tenderers should notify the Contact Officer using the Contact Address whether they intend to response or decline to respond to this RFT within 10 Business Days of the RFT Release Date.
The notification under clause 2.6(a) is for the AEC’s information purposes only.
Failure to provide the notification under clause 2.6(a) will not preclude a Tenderer from submitting a Tender in response to this RFT.
Public Interest Certificate
A Public Interest Certificate (PIC) has not, as at the date of release of this RFT, been issued for this procurement. 
The AEC may issue a PIC at any time during the procurement process, in accordance with the requirements of the Government Procurement (Judicial Review) Act 2018 (Cth), in which case, all potential suppliers will be notified via AusTender.
Communications
AusTender, the Australian Government Tender System
AusTender is the Australian Government’s procurement information system. Access to and use of AusTender is subject to terms and conditions. In participating in this procurement process, Tenderers must comply with those terms and conditions and any applicable instructions, processes, procedures and recommendations as advised on AusTender at: https://www.tenders.gov.au/?event=public.termsOfUse.
All queries and requests for technical or operational support relating to AusTender must be directed to:
AusTender Help Desk
Telephone:  1300 651 698
International:  +61 2 6215 1558
Email:  tenders@finance.gov.au
The AusTender Help Desk is available between 9am and 5pm ACT local time, Monday to Friday (excluding ACT and national public holidays).
Communications with the AEC
All enquiries for information or notices by a Tenderer to the AEC in connection with this RFT must be: 
in writing; 
addressed to the Contact Officer; and
sent by e-mail to the Contact Address before the Enquiry Deadline.
Tenderers may seek clarification of the meaning of the content of this RFT from the Contact Officer in accordance with clause 3.2(a).  
Tenderers should immediately notify the Contact Officer in writing if they reasonably believe there is any discrepancy, error, ambiguity, inconsistency or omission in this RFT so that the AEC may take whatever corrective action, if any, it deems appropriate.  Any actual discrepancy, error, ambiguity, inconsistency, or omission in this RFT or any other Information so identified will be corrected (or the proper information issued) and will be made available to all Tenderers (without attribution to the identifying Tenderer).
Clarifications, addenda and other notices
The AEC may deliver any written notification or response to a Tenderer:
by issuing a notice using the same method as for the issue of this RFT; or 
by sending it to, or causing it to be left at, the Tenderer's address as specified in its Tender. Such notification will be deemed to be delivered in accordance with the notice clause of the Deed of Standing Offer.
In all cases the AEC reserves the right to:
forward the question and details of any AEC response to all Tenderers on a non-attributable basis; and
not respond to queries, comments or questions and does not intend to respond to enquiries received after the Enquiry Deadline.
Where the AEC issues an addendum to this RFT prior to the RFT Closing Time, it will communicate the addendum to all Tenderers via AusTender.
Responsibility of Tenderers
Tenderers who have registered and downloaded the RFT documentation will be notified by AusTender via email of the issue of any addenda, clarifications or other notices in respect of the RFT documentation. It is in the interests of Tenderers to ensure they have correctly recorded their contact details prior to downloading RFT documentation. If Tenderers have not recorded their details correctly, they should amend their details and download the RFT documentation again.
Tenderers are required to login to AusTender and collect addenda, clarifications and other notices as notified.
The AEC will accept no responsibility if a Tenderer fails to become aware of any addendum notice which would have been apparent from a visit to the AusTender page for this RFT.
If a Tenderer has obtained RFT documentation other than from AusTender, they will need to visit AusTender, register as a user and download the RFT documentation for this RFT.
Requirements of Tenders
Conditions for Participation
Subject to clauses 5.5 and 5.9(a), the AEC will exclude a Tender from further consideration if the Tenderer does not meet the following Conditions for Participation:
Minimum Content and Format Requirements
Subject to clause 5.9(a), the AEC will exclude a Tender from further consideration if the AEC considers that the Tender does not comply with any of the requirements set out below.
While not a minimum content requirement, the Tender should include all materials for consideration as annexures, attachments or otherwise within the submission documentation, no hyperlinked materials should be referenced for evaluation and may not be considered for evaluation purposes if included.
Format of Tender
Tenderers should submit a completed Tender Form. Tenderers should complete all of the Annexures to Schedule 3 and attach them to their Tender Form.  
Tenderers should ensure that their Tender contains all information requested in this RFT.  
Executive summary
Tenderers should provide a summary of their Tender in Annexure C to Schedule 3.
Tenderers should note that this executive summary may be used for high-level briefing of key stakeholders, for example, the Minister(s) and the Parliamentary Secretary, the Department of Finance, and Parliamentary Committees and should not contain any information which the Tenderer would not wish to have made available in the public domain. 
Consents for security, probity and financial checks
The AEC may perform such security, probity and financial checks and procedures as the AEC, at its absolute discretion, may determine are necessary in relation to:
a Tenderer, its officers, employees, partners, associates and subcontractors; and
Related Bodies Corporate of the Tenderer and its subcontractors and their officers, employees and subcontractors.
A Tender may be excluded from consideration by the AEC if the Tenderer does not provide, at its own cost, all reasonable assistance to the AEC in this regard. 
Contracting with a single legal entity 
The AEC intends that any Deed of Standing Offer that is awarded will be between the AEC and a single legal entity (as opposed to a group of entities or a consortium), with that single legal entity being responsible for the performance of all of the Service Provider’s obligations contained in the Deed of Standing Offer.
Where the Tenderer proposes to leverage off multiple entities to provide the Services, those entities must be subcontractors to the single legal entity who contracts with the AEC.
The AEC may exclude a Tender from the evaluation process if the Tenderer does not propose to contract with the AEC using a single legal entity that exists at the RFT Closing Time. 
Alternative Tenders
This clause 4.7 applies where Item 9 indicates that alternative Tenders will be accepted for the purposes of this RFT.
A Tenderer must submit a Tender that complies with the requirements of this RFT. However the Tenderer may also submit an alternative Tender which does not comply with the requirements of this RFT provided that a compliant Tender is also submitted. 
If a Tenderer submits an alternative Tender, they should clearly identify it as an alternative Tender and clearly state the advantages, disadvantages, limitations and capabilities of the alternative Tender.
Lodgement process
RFT Closing Time 
Tenders must be lodged before the RFT Closing Time.
Lodgement through AusTender
Tenders must be lodged electronically via AusTender before the RFT Closing Time and in accordance with the Tender lodgement procedures set out in this RFT and on AusTender.
Tenders lodged by any other means (including physically or by email) will not be accepted.
Preparing to lodge a Tender 
	Tender file formats, naming conventions and sizes
The AEC will accept Tenders lodged in Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel and/or PDF format.
The Tender file name(s):
should incorporate the Tenderer’s legal entity name; and
should reflect the various parts of the bid they represent, where the Tender comprises multiple files.        
Tender files must not exceed a combined file size of seven megabytes per upload. 
Tenders must be completely self-contained. No hyperlinked or other material may be incorporated by reference. 
Checking for Harmful Code
In submitting their Tenders electronically, Tenderers warrant that they have taken reasonable steps to ensure that Tender files are free of Harmful Code which may affect AusTender and/or the AEC’s ICT environment. Tenders found to contain Harmful Code may be excluded from consideration.
Electronic lodgement process
Tenderers must allow sufficient time for Tender lodgement, including time that may be required for any problem analysis and resolution prior to the RFT Closing Time.
Tenderers should be aware that holding the “Lodge a Response” page in the web browser will not hold the electronic tender box open beyond the RFT Closing Time. An error message will be issued if the lodgement process is attempted after the RFT Closing Time.
Tenders lodged through AusTender will be deemed to be authorised by the Tenderer.
If Tenderers have any problem in accessing the AusTender website or uploading a Tender they should contact the AusTender Help Desk prior to the RFT Closing Time. Failure to do so may result in the Tender being excluded from consideration.
Late Tenders, incomplete Tenders and corrupted files
Any attempt to lodge a Tender after the RFT Closing Time will not be permitted by AusTender. Such a Tender will be deemed a Late Tender. Late Tenders will be excluded from consideration unless the Tender is a Late Tender as a consequence of mishandling by the AEC.
The countdown clock displayed on AusTender will display in real time the amount of time left until the RFT Closing Time. The time displayed on the countdown clock is deemed the correct amount of time left until the RFT Closing Time and will be the means by which the AEC will determine whether a Tender has been lodged by the RFT Closing Time.
Where electronic submission of a Tender has commenced prior to the RFT Closing Time but concluded after the RFT Closing Time, and upload of the Tender file/s has completed successfully, as confirmed by AusTender system logs, the Tender will not be deemed to be a Late Tender. Such Tenders will be identified by AusTender to the AEC as having commenced transmission prior to, but completed lodgement after, the RFT Closing Time.
Where a Tender lodgement consists of multiple uploads, due to the number and/or size of the files, Tenderers must ensure that transmission of all files is completed and receipted before the RFT Closing Time and clause 5.5(c) will only apply to the final upload.
Incomplete Tenders may be excluded from consideration. This includes Tenders with electronic files that cannot be read or decrypted.
If the AEC believes a Tender to potentially contain any Harmful Code or anything else that might compromise the integrity or security of AusTender and/or the AEC’s ICT environment, it may also be excluded from consideration.
Proof of electronic lodgement
When a Tender lodgement has successfully completed, an official receipt is provided on-screen. The on-screen receipt will record the time and date the Tender was received by AusTender and will be conclusive evidence of successful lodgement of a Tender. It is essential that Tenderers save and print this receipt as proof of lodgement. A separate email confirming receipt of the Tender will also be automatically dispatched to the email address of the registered user whose details were recorded at login.
Failure to receive a receipt means that lodgement has not completed successfully. Where no receipt has been issued by AusTender, the attempted lodgement will be deemed to have been unsuccessful. Tenderers should refer to clauses 5.4(a) and 5.4(d). 
AusTender security
Tenderers acknowledge that although the Commonwealth has implemented the security measures described on AusTender, the Commonwealth does not warrant that unauthorised access to information and data transmitted via the internet will not occur.
Tenderers acknowledge that:
lodgement of their Tender on time and in accordance with this RFT is entirely their responsibility; and
the AEC will not be liable for any loss, damage, costs or expenses incurred by Tenderers or any other person if, for any reason, a Tender or any other material or communication relevant to this RFT is not received on time, is corrupted or altered or otherwise is not received as sent, cannot be read or decrypted, or has its security or integrity compromised.
It is the responsibility of the Tenderers to ensure that their infrastructure including operating system and browser revision levels meet the minimum standards as defined on AusTender. Neither the AEC nor the Commonwealth take any responsibility for any problems arising from Tenderers’ infrastructure and/or internet connectivity.
Corrections and additions
Tenders containing pricing or other information that is not stated clearly and legibly may be excluded from consideration.
If a Tenderer becomes aware of any discrepancy, error, ambiguity, inconsistency or omission in its Tender prior to the RFT Closing Time and the Tenderer wishes to lodge a correction, that material must be in writing and lodged in accordance with clause 5.2(a).
Subject to clauses 9.4 and 9.9, if correcting information is delivered after the RFT Closing Time, the AEC may treat it as a Late Tender.
Unintentional errors of form
If the AEC considers that there is an unintentional error of form in a Tender, the AEC may, at its absolute discretion, allow the Tenderer to correct or clarify the error.
Where the AEC considers that such a correction or clarification would introduce unfairness into the evaluation process, the corrections will not be admitted for evaluation.
Clarification of Tenders by the AEC
After the RFT Closing Time, the AEC may seek clarification on any matter from any Tenderer.
The AEC may require a Tenderer to submit additional information to allow further consideration of its Tender. 
In the event that the AEC requires clarification of a Tender, the Tenderer may be required to courier or security post the originals of the signature and/or initialled pages to the AEC within the timeframe and to the address specified by the AEC.    
Tenderers should:
respond to any request for clarification within the time period and in the format specified by the AEC;
ensure that clarifying information provided answers the AEC's enquiry and is consistent with the Tender submitted by the Tenderer; and
not seek to materially alter any aspect of their Tender.
Where the AEC considers that such clarification or additional information would introduce unfairness into the evaluation process, it will not be admitted for evaluation.
Evaluation 
Overview
Following the RFT Closing Time, an evaluation process will take place to determine the Tenders that offer the best value for money overall for the AEC.  
The evaluation process will be conducted in the following stages:
Stage 1: Initial screening;
Stage 2: Assessment against the Scored Evaluation Criteria; and
Stage 3: Assessment of Best Value for Money Overall.
Neither the Tenderer with the lowest price, nor any Tender, will necessarily be accepted by the AEC.
Evaluation Criteria
The Evaluation Criteria are listed in Item 12. They are provided for the information of Tenderers to enable them to prepare a Tender that best satisfies this RFT.
Each Tenderer is encouraged to address the Evaluation Criteria in its Tender in sufficient detail to enable an effective evaluation of its Tender. 
The Evaluation Criteria are not listed in any order of importance, however, a Scored Evaluation Criterion identified as Important will have greater weight than one identified as Desirable. If weightings are to be used, the specific weighting of each criterion will be set out in Item 12 if required by the CPRs.
In relation to the Non-scored Evaluation Criteria:
Tenderers should complete all Annexures in Schedule 3;
the details included in the Pricing Schedule should cover all costs of providing the Services in accordance with the Deed of Standing Offer and Statement of Requirements, including any operating margin, finance cost and return on equity;
other than in the Pricing Schedule, price details, such as surcharges, transport cost pricing, among others, should not be included anywhere else in the Tender;
competitive neutrality requires that government business activities should not enjoy net competitive advantages over their private sector competitors simply by virtue of public sector ownership.  Each Tenderer from the public sector (if any) should demonstrate in its price that the requirements of competitive neutrality have been met, including payment of relevant taxes and charges, rates of return and costs of funds; and
Tenderers should include all assumptions or other caveats on which Tenders are based, and any effect of the assumptions or other caveats on price, as well as information or events required to remove caveats in the Tenderer's completed Pricing Schedule.  If no assumptions or other caveats are included in the Tenderer's completed Pricing Schedule, the Tenderer will be deemed to have represented to the AEC that no assumptions or other caveats apply.
Evaluation approach
Tenderers should note that the AEC intends to select Preferred Tenderers (if any) primarily based on the written Tenders submitted. Tenderers should not consider the AEC to have any prior or assumed knowledge regarding the Tenderer or their capacity to deliver the Services. Accordingly, Tenderers are encouraged to submit their best and unconditional offer in the first instance. 
Each Tender that is complete and meets the Mandatory Requirements will be evaluated to determine how well it meets each Evaluation Criterion.
Tenderers should note that in evaluating a Tender against each Evaluation Criterion, the AEC will consider the entirety of the Tenderer's Tender.  
The evaluation process may involve, at any stage and at the sole and absolute discretion of the AEC:
the AEC contacting some or all Tenderers to clarify aspects of their Tenders;
shortlisting;
presentations or interviews with Tenderers or visits to some or all Tenderers' sites;
discussions with, and/or visits to some or all Tenderers or their customers or subcontractors, whether or not those persons are provided as referees by a Tenderer; and/or
AEC negotiations with any or all Tenderers (see clause 7).
The AEC may make independent enquiries about any matter that may be relevant to the evaluation of a Tender including in relation to performance of any other contract the Tenderer has had with the AEC or any other Commonwealth entity.
The AEC may also include an assessment of risk to the AEC in general and to this RFT process, in particular in its evaluation against each Evaluation Criterion (as well as in the Assessment of Best Value for Money Overall).  The Tenderer's Compliance Statement will be taken into account in the assessment of risk.
Stage 1 – Initial screening 
At Stage 1, the AEC will undertake an initial assessment as to whether each Tender:
is a Late Tender;
complies with each of the Mandatory Requirements;
contains any unintentional errors of form; and
is otherwise incomplete or non compliant with this RFT.
Late Tenders will be excluded from consideration in accordance with clause 5.5. 
Subject to clause 6.4(d), Tenders which the AEC determines do not comply with each of the Mandatory Requirements will be excluded from further consideration.
Where the AEC determines that a Tender is incomplete or does contain unintentional errors of form, the AEC may request the Tenderer to correct or clarify the error in accordance with clause 5.10.
Where the AEC determines that a Tender is otherwise incomplete or non-compliant with this RFT, the AEC may exclude that Tender from further consideration.
The AEC may reach the view that Tenders fall within the categories listed in clauses 6.4(c), 6.4(d) or 6.4(e) at any stage during the evaluation process. 
Stage 2 – Assessment against the Scored Evaluation Criteria
The AEC will assess Tenders that have progressed to Stage 2 against the Scored Evaluation Criteria. 
In evaluating Tenders against the Scored Evaluation Criteria, the AEC will consider:
the merit of the Tender and how it conforms (including completeness) to the relevant Scored Evaluation Criterion;
the degree with which the Tenderer’s assertions and claims are demonstrated or supported, and the merit of any supporting information provided; and
the weighting of each criterion (if applicable).
Stage 3 – Assessment of Best Value for Money Overall
The AEC will determine which of the Tenderers (if any) are likely to be able to provide the Services to the AEC at the best value for money overall, through a comparative assessment of the Tenders against the:   
outcome of Stage 2; and
Non-scored Evaluation Criteria.
When assessing Tenders against the Non-scored Evaluation Criteria:
the AEC will conduct a financial assessment of the prices provided in the completed Pricing Schedule;
the AEC may, at its absolute discretion, consider and if necessary adjust prices in order to establish a common basis for the comparison of Tenders. Such adjustments may include but are not limited to:
consideration of normalised and discounted cash flow;
cost of administration of the Deed of Standing Offer (and any Agreements under it);
any assumptions or other caveats attaching to the price;
consideration of alternative proposals or financial incentives offered by a Tenderer;
accounting for pricing flexibility;
implementation and transition-out costs;
analysis of risks related to a Tender; and
other costs, if any, or financial impacts (including discounts) on the AEC that may arise from appointing a particular Tenderer; 
the AEC may use discounted cash flow to estimate the net present value of amounts in future years of the Deed of Standing Offer (or any Agreements under it), with all assumptions on costs, interest rates and related factors to be determined solely at the discretion of the AEC; 
the AEC is obliged to satisfy itself that prices offered are reasonable. Tenderers agree to provide access to such information as determined by the AEC in order to evaluate the reasonableness of their prices; and
the AEC may, without limitation, take into account:
the Tenderer's response to all Annexures in Schedule 3;
risks identified as a result of the assessment of the Tender against the other Evaluation Criteria;
risks identified from sources other than the Tenderer; 
risks identified as part of conducting the overall risk assessment; and
other risks identified during the evaluation of each Tender.
Negotiation 
Negotiation process
One or more Preferred Tenderers may be chosen for negotiations.
During the negotiation phase (if any) of this RFT process, the AEC may:
engage in detailed discussions and negotiations, including parallel negotiations, with the goal of maximising the value for money overall of a Tender to the AEC; and
seek variations to an offer or may seek supplementary offers in respect of any changes to the originally stated requirements.
As part of the negotiation phase, Preferred Tenderers may be asked to improve any or all aspects of their Tender.
The selection of the Service Provider(s) will be subject to the successful conclusion of negotiations and entry into a Deed of Standing Offer.  
Conduct of negotiations
During negotiations, Tenderers must not seek to alter a clause in the draft Deed of Standing Offer to which they have stated they comply in their Compliance Statement.
Without limiting its other rights under this RFT, if in the AEC's view, during negotiations a Preferred Tenderer has retracted, or attempts to retract, agreements under which material business, financial, technical and / or legal issues were resolved or agreed, the AEC may:
reject the Preferred Tenderer's Tender;
discontinue negotiations with that Tenderer;
re-enter negotiations or parallel negotiations with other Tenderers (including or excluding the Preferred Tenderer and other Preferred Tenderers); 
terminate this RFT process; and/or
exercise any other right reserved to the AEC under law or elsewhere in this RFT.
Notification of outcome and debriefing
The RFT process concludes when one of the following occurs:
the AEC enters into a Deed of Standing Offer with one or more Tenderers; or
the AEC terminates this RFT process in accordance with clause 9.12(a)(xvi).
At the conclusion of the RFT process, the AEC will:
notify all unsuccessful Tenderers who submitted a Tender in writing of the outcome of the evaluation of their Tender; and
offer all Tenderers the opportunity for a debrief in relation to their Tender.
Other terms and conditions
Ownership of Tender documents
The AEC will retain all documents lodged in response to this RFT to enable the evaluation of Tenders and to comply with obligations relating to accountability and record keeping.  Accordingly, Tenderers lodge all material in response to this RFT on the basis that they will become the physical property of the AEC on submission.
Ownership of Intellectual Property Rights in RFT and Tender
Such Intellectual Property Rights as may exist in the Information will remain the property of the AEC. The Tenderer is permitted to use that Information for the purpose only of compiling its Tender and, in the case of the short listed Tenderers, for subsequently negotiating the terms of the Deed of Standing Offer with the AEC.
Such Intellectual Property Rights as may exist in a Tender will remain the property of the Tenderer. Each Tenderer licenses the AEC, its officers, employees, agents, advisers and Ministers and other government representatives to copy, adapt, modify, disclose or do anything else necessary (in the AEC's sole opinion) to all material (including that which contains Intellectual Property Rights of the Tenderer or any other person) contained in that Tender for the purposes of:
conducting this procurement process including evaluating and clarifying Tenders and managing any resulting Deed of Standing Offer with a successful Tenderer; 
complying with any law; and
anything else related to the above purposes, including 
audits; 
complying with governmental and parliamentary reporting requirements including reporting to the Minister;
responding to requests for information from parliament or parliamentary committees; and
responding to any dispute regarding this RFT process.
Tender Validity Period
Each Tender, including the price, remains valid for consideration and acceptance by the AEC throughout the Tender Validity Period.
Political neutrality and Conflict of Interest
Note to Tenderers:  Conflict of Interest is defined to include circumstances where direct or indirect relationship or interest the Tenderer or its personnel may be seen to compromise the political neutrality of the AEC.
The AEC requires that its contractors:  
respect the strict political neutrality of the AEC, as it relates to AEC’s performance of its functions under the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 (Cth), the Referendum (Machinery Provisions) Act 1984 (Cth), Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009 (Cth) and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Act 2005 (Cth); and
do not associate the AEC in any way with any political activity that they undertake (including in relation to a plebiscite or referendum).
Where contractors provide personnel to work under the direction of the AEC in performing services, those personnel may be required to sign a declaration of political neutrality in such a form as may be required by the AEC to ensure that such personnel are aware of this requirement.
The Tenderer should declare at Annexure M to Schedule 3 any circumstances or relationships that constitute or may constitute an actual or potential Conflict of Interest in respect of this RFT or the Tenderer's obligations under any Deed of Standing Offer arising from this RFT process.
If a Tenderer declares a Conflict of Interest pursuant to clause 9.4(c), the Tenderer should set out at Annexure M to Schedule 3 its proposed strategy for managing each such Conflict of Interest.
If at any time prior to entering into a Deed of Standing Offer, an actual or potential Conflict of Interest arises or may arise for any Tenderer, that Tenderer should immediately notify the AEC in writing of that Conflict of Interest. The AEC may, at its absolute discretion:
enter into discussions to seek to resolve such Conflict of Interest;
disregard the Tender submitted by that Tenderer; or
take any other action as it considers appropriate, at its absolute discretion.
Tenderer conduct
The AEC's policy is to engage in the highest standards of ethical behaviour and fair dealing throughout this RFT process. The AEC requires the same standards from those with whom it deals. 
Tenders must not be prepared with:
improper assistance of employees or former employees, or contractors or former contractors of the AEC; or
the use of information improperly obtained or in breach of an obligation of confidentiality.
A Tenderer must not:
engage in misleading or deceptive conduct in connection with this RFT process;
engage in any collusive tendering, anti-competitive conduct, or any other unlawful or unethical conduct with any other Tenderer, or any other person in connection with this RFT process; or
attempt to influence improperly any officer, employee or agent of the AEC, or violate any applicable laws or AEC policies regarding the offering of inducements in connection with this RFT process. 
The AEC will exclude from consideration any Tender lodged by a Tenderer who, in the AECs reasonable opinion, has engaged in any behaviour contrary to this clause 9.5.
Due diligence
Tenderers will be expected to undertake an examination of all matters relevant to the provision of the Services to the AEC prior to lodging their Tender. Tenderers will be deemed to have made their own inquiries regarding provision of the Services. 
The AEC may at its sole and absolute discretion exclude from consideration any Tender that is made subject to any due diligence or other investigation to be performed after the Tender is submitted.
Return of Information
The AEC may, at its absolute discretion, require that at any stage all written Information provided to Tenderers (whether confidential or otherwise and without regard to the type of media on which such Information was provided to any Tenderer), and all copies of such Information made by Tenderers, be:
returned to the AEC - in which case the Tenderer must promptly return all such Information to the address identified by the AEC; or
destroyed by the Tenderer - in which case the Tenderer must promptly destroy all such Information and provide the AEC with written certification that the Information has been destroyed.
Confidentiality of Tenderer information
The AEC will, subject to this RFT, endeavour to treat the following information as confidential:
all Tenders received prior to entering into a Deed of Standing Offer;
all unsuccessful Tenders, following entry into a Deed of Standing Offer; and
all successful Tenders, following entry into a Deed of Standing Offer but only to the extent that:
the successful Tenderer requests that specific information in that Tender be kept confidential; and
the AEC has determined that specific information is to be kept confidential in accordance with the Confidentiality Test and has agreed, pursuant to the Deed of Standing Offer with the successful Tenderer, to keep that information confidential.
Each Tenderer should identify in Annexure L to Schedule 3 any information that it is providing to the AEC in, or related to, its Tender that it considers should be subject to an obligation of confidence on the part of the AEC in the event a Deed of Standing Offer is entered into.  
The AEC will not be taken to have breached any obligation to keep information provided by Tenderers confidential to the extent that the information is:
disclosed by the AEC to its advisers, officers, employees or subcontractors solely in order to conduct this procurement process or to prepare and manage any resultant Deed of Standing Offer (or any Agreement under it);
disclosed to the AEC’s internal management personnel to enable effective management or auditing of this procurement process;
disclosed by the AEC to the responsible Minister or in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia;
shared by the AEC within the AEC’s organisation, or with another Commonwealth agency, where this serves the Commonwealth’s legitimate interests;
authorised or required by law to be disclosed; 
disclosed to meet the AEC’s reporting or accountability requirements; 
disclosed by the AEC to the Auditor General, Ombudsman, Privacy Commissioner, Information Commissioner or Freedom of Information Commissioner or their delegates; or
in the public domain otherwise than due to a breach of the relevant obligations of confidentiality.
Change affecting Tenderer
A Tenderer must promptly notify the AEC of any change, after submission of its Tender, which may have an adverse impact on its access to the necessary skills, resources, or corporate or financial backing to perform the Services under the Deed of Standing Offer.
Where such change would alter any of the information or assurances that the Tenderer has given in its Tender, the Tenderer must promptly:
notify the AEC;
identify with specificity (including any relevant page, section, clause, Schedule, Annexure and other like references to its Tender, and any other material and information provided to the AEC) all such information and assurances; and
state in detail the alterations to such information and assurances required by such change.
If the AEC receives a notice under clauses 9.9(a) or (b), or becomes aware of an event under those clauses, the AEC may either exclude the Tender from consideration or consider the Tender taking into account the impact of the changed circumstances on the information provided in the Tender.
Publicity
The Tenderer may not issue any information, publication, document or article for publication in any media which includes details of the Services under the Deed of Standing Offer or which otherwise refers or is connected to the AEC or this RFT process, without the prior written approval of the AEC. 
No contract or undertaking
Without limiting any obligations on a Tenderer, nothing in this RFT will be construed to create any binding contract (express or implied) between the AEC and any Tenderer until a Deed of Standing Offer is entered into with the successful Tenderer (if any).  Any conduct or statement whether prior to or subsequent to the issue of this RFT is not, and this RFT is not, and must not be deemed to be:
an offer to contract by the AEC; or
a binding undertaking of any kind by the AEC (including, without limitation, quasi-contractual rights, promissory estoppel, or rights with a similar legal basis).
If a court finds there to be a contract between the AEC and a Tenderer regarding the conduct of this RFT process contrary to clause 9.11(a), the AEC's liability for any breach of the terms of such contract is limited to the Tenderer's direct substantiated costs of participation in this RFT process. The AEC's liability generally in connection with this RFT process (eg for negligence or breach of statute) is limited to the same amount. For the avoidance of doubt, the AEC will not be liable for any Indirect Loss of the Tenderer.
AEC's rights
Without limiting its rights at law or otherwise and notwithstanding any other clause of this RFT, the AEC reserves the right at its absolute discretion at any time to:
vary this RFT process;
provide or not provide additional clarification or information to Tenderers;
amend this RFT, including extending the RFT Closing Time, by giving written notice to Tenderers (where possible) and advertising the changes on the AusTender website;
issue addenda to this RFT, in which case all terms and conditions of this RFT will apply to any addenda unless amended in the addenda;
amend the terms and conditions or the schedules of the Deed of Standing Offer at any time, including:
to add to, alter, delete or exclude any part of the Services to be supplied under the Deed of Standing Offer; and
following the receipt and evaluation of Tenders;
require additional information or clarification from any Tenderer or anyone else or provide additional information or clarification;
negotiate with any one or more Tenderers (including without shortlisting), or discontinue negotiations with any Tenderer at any time for any reason;
allow any Tenderer to change its Tender at any time;
seek amended, or call for new, Tenders;
reject any Tender received after the RFT Closing Time;
shortlist or select Preferred Tenderers or choose not to do so;
accept all or part of any Tender, including a non-compliant Tender or a Tender that is not the lowest priced;
reject all or part of a Tender at any time, including a Tender that complies with this RFT;
accept a Tender for a different requirement than set out in the Statement of Requirements;
reject or accept at any time any alternative Tender;
cease to proceed with, or suspend, the process outlined in this RFT, including where the AEC considers that:
it is in the public interest to do so;
no Tender meets the Mandatory Requirements;
no Tenderer is fully capable of undertaking the Deed of Standing Offer; 
the Australian Government approves the procurement of the Services under a co-ordinated procurement process as described in clause 10.2(a); or
no Tender represents value for money;
where clause 9.12(a)(xvi) applies:
negotiate with any person (including a person who is not a Tenderer) and enter into a Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of some of all of the Services with that person on such terms as the AEC at its absolute discretion accepts without prior notice to any Tenderer;
enter into an agreement or binding relationship outside the RFT process; or
not award an agreement at all;
publish or disclose the names of the successful Tenderer(s) and the subcontractors to be used in supplying the Services; 
allow or not allow a Related Body Corporate or another legal entity to take over a Tender in substitution for the original Tenderer; or
if a panel of Service Providers is established, cancel, vary, supplement, supersede or replace the panel or any member of the panel.
Any time or date contained in this RFT is provided for the sole convenience of the AEC. The establishment of a time or date in this RFT does not create an obligation on the part of the AEC to take any action or create any right in any Tenderer that any action be taken on the date established. The AEC may, but is not obliged to, notify affected Tenderers if the AEC exercises any of its rights listed above in clause 9.12(a), but will not be obliged to provide any reasons for its actions.
Tenderer's acknowledgment
This RFT contains information concerning the AEC and its requirements in respect of the Services. It has been prepared for the sole use of Tenderers in deciding whether or not to lodge a Tender. This RFT does not:
purport to contain all the information that an interested Tenderer would desire, or require, to assess the opportunity;
comprise any sort of recommendation by the AEC; or
include any investment, accounting, financial, legal or tax advice.
The AEC, its officers, employees, agents and advisers:
are not, and will not, be responsible or liable for the accuracy, currency, reliability or completeness of the Information;
make no express or implied representation or warranty that any estimate or forecast will be achieved or that any statement as to future matters will prove correct;
expressly disclaim any and all liability arising from the Information including, without limitation, errors in, or omissions contained in the Information;
except so far as liability under any statute cannot be excluded, accept no responsibility arising in any way from errors in, or omissions from this RFT, the Information, or in negligence; and
have no responsibility to inform any Tenderer of any matter arising or of which they become aware which may affect or qualify any Information provided to Tenderers in any way.
Submission of a Tender will constitute evidence of and an acknowledgement by the Tenderer that:
it has read this RFT and understands this RFT process and its requirements;
it has examined the AusTender Terms of Use;  
it has examined this RFT, all documents referred to in this RFT and all other Information made available to it in writing by the AEC including all applicable legislation and policies, and has independently satisfied itself as to the accuracy of the Information;
it has sought appropriate professional advice on this RFT and all Information, and on the impact of all laws, accounting, financial and tax issues on its participation in this RFT process and on its obligations under any subsequent Deed of Standing Offer;
it has made enquiries of all appropriate persons and taken other steps as appropriate, including having examined all further information which is obtainable by making reasonable enquiries relevant to the risks, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its Tender and any subsequent Deed of Standing Offer or any assumptions, uncertainties and contingencies which may affect the AEC's future business;
it has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its Tender; 
in deciding whether to submit a Tender, it has relied entirely on its own enquiries and has not relied on any express or implied statement, warranty or representation, whether oral, written, or otherwise made by or on behalf of the AEC, its officers, employees, agents or advisers other than any statement, warranty or representation contained in Information made available in writing by the AEC;
it complies (or has complied) with the requirements of all applicable laws and policies in preparing and lodging its Tender and taking part in this RFT process, including but not limited to clause 9.5, and the laws and policies referred to in clause 10; 
apart from any actual or potential Conflict of Interest declared in Annexure M to Schedule 3 at the date of submitting the Tender, no Conflict of Interest exists or might arise concerning the Tenderer in respect of this RFT or the Tenderer's obligations under any arising from this RFT process; 
the Tenderer is responsible for all costs and expenses referred to in clause 9.14; and 
the AEC will be relying on all of the information contained in the Tenderer's Tender and all of the representations made in such Tender, and any subsequent written and/or verbal clarifications of that Tender for the purposes of evaluating the Tender against Tenders received from other persons.
Responsibility for Tender costs
Participation in any stage of this RFT process, or in relation to any matter concerning this RFT will be at each Tenderer's sole risk, cost and expense.  The Tenderer will be and the AEC will not be responsible in any circumstances for any costs or expenses incurred by any Tenderer related to:
responding to this RFT, or taking any action in relation to this RFT process; 
any Deed of Standing Offer negotiations;
any other action including any dispute or response in relation to this RFT; or
any agreement a Tenderer has made or may make in connection with any potential Deed of Standing Offer.   
Without limiting clause 9.14(a), the AEC is not liable to any Tenderer on the basis of any promissory estoppel, quantum meruit, quantum valebat, or any other contractual, quasi contractual or restitutionary grounds or in negligence as a consequence of any matter or thing relating to or incidental to a Tenderer's participation in this RFT process, including, without limitation:
the procurement process for this RFT;
where a Tenderer is not successful under this RFT process;
where the AEC varies, suspends or terminates this RFT process or negotiates with a Tenderer; or
where the AEC exercises, or fails to exercise, any of its other rights under or in relation to this RFT.
Applicable law
The law applying in the Australian Capital Territory applies to this RFT and this RFT process.  Each Tenderer must comply with all relevant laws in preparing and lodging its Tender and taking part in this RFT process.
Complaints
If a Tenderer has a complaint concerning this RFT or the AEC's management of any aspect of this RFT process, the Tenderer should provide written notice of the details of the complaint:
where the complaint is about an alleged contravention of the Commonwealth Procurement Rules under the Government Procurement (Judicial Review) Act 2018 (Cth) (GPJR Act) with the accountably authority (or its delegate) of the AEC by submitting a complaint via the AEC website; and
for all other complaints -  to the Contact Officer.
A complaint lodged by the Tenderer under clause 9.16(a)(i), should comply with the requirements under the GPJR Act and must detail:  
any alleged or proposed conduct in contravention of the relevant Commonwealth Procurement Rules; and
how the interests of the Tenderer or a supplier are affected by the alleged or proposed conduct. 
If the AEC receives a complaint lodged by a Tenderer under clause 9.16(a)(i) then the AEC reserves the right to suspend this RFT process as required under the GPJR Act. 
The AEC will provide acknowledgement to the Tenderer that the complaint has been received in accordance with the AEC Complaint Management Policy.
Complaints will not prejudice a Tenderer’s participation in any of the AEC’s future RFT processes. 
Applicable laws and policies
The attention of each Tenderer is drawn to the legislation and policies set out in this clause 10.  The Tenderer should obtain, and will be deemed to have obtained, its own advice on the impact of any laws and policies on its participation in this RFT process and performance of the Deed of Standing Offer.
Commonwealth procurement
This procurement process will be conducted in accordance with the Commonwealth Procurement Rules (CPRs).  
Tenderers should make their own enquiries about the CPRs and other relevant Commonwealth policies which apply to the procurement process initiated by this RFT.  The website of the Department of Finance is an appropriate starting point for any inquiry about relevant Commonwealth procurement policy - see https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement
Coordinated procurement
It is possible that the Australian Government may approve the procurement of some or all of the Services under a coordinated process:
before the Tender Validity Period ends; 
after the Tender Validity Period ends but before a Deed of Standing Offer is signed with the successful Tenderer(s); or 
during the term of any Deed of Standing Offer entered into as a result of this RFT.  
If clause 10.2(a)(i) or clause 10.2(a)(ii) applies, the AEC reserves the right to discontinue this RFT process. If clause 10.2(a)(iii) applies, the AEC may exercise its right under the Deed of Standing Offer to terminate the Deed of Standing Offer for convenience. 
Each Tenderer should refer to the Deed of Standing Offer, which details the termination mechanisms that may apply to the Deed of Standing Offer. Further information about coordinated procurement and scoping studies is available at the Department of Finance website.
Indigenous Procurement Policy
Tenderers should note that the Indigenous Procurement Policy applies to this procurement.  More information on the Indigenous Procurement Policy can be found at https://www.niaa.gov.au/sites/default/files/publications/indigenous-procurement-policy.pdf
Tenderers should note that while the Indigenous Procurement Policy applies, given the nature of this procurement, Section 3 (mandatory set-aside of certain Commonwealth contracts) and Section 4 (Minimum requirements for certain Commonwealth contracts) do not apply to this RFT or any resulting Agreement.  Notwithstanding this, the AEC welcomes responses to this RFT from Indigenous owned businesses.
Access and disclosure regimes
Rights of the Auditor-General
The Auditor-General Act 1997 (Cth) provides the Auditor-General or an authorised person with a right to have, at all reasonable times, access to information, documents and records.
Freedom of information
The Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) and the Freedom of Information Amendment (Reform) Act 2010 (Cth) (together the FOl Act) give members of the public right of access to documents in the possession of the Commonwealth and its agencies. 
The FOI Act extends as far as possible the right of the community to access documents in the possession of the Commonwealth, limited only by exceptions and exemptions necessary for the protection of essential public interests and the private and business affairs of persons in respect of whom information is collected and held by agencies and public authorities.
Public interest disclosure
The Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013 (Cth) (the PID Act) applies to Australian Government agencies, Commonwealth companies, public authorities and Commonwealth contracted service providers.
The PID Act removes barriers that prevent people who work in the public sector from speaking up about serious problems. It also makes sure disclosures are properly investigated and provides protection for those that report allegations. 
Publication of Deed of Standing Offer details
Tenderers should be aware that the AEC is subject to specific accountability requirements, which support internal and external scrutiny of its tendering and contracting processes. These include:
the requirement to publish details of:
contracts and agreements with an estimated value of $10,000 or more; and 
standing offer arrangements regardless of value,
on AusTender;
the requirement to report details of Commonwealth contracts valued at $100,000 or more in accordance with the Procedural Order of Continuing Effect: Department and Agency Contracts, including the:
name of the service provider and the subject matter of the contract;
total value of the contract; and
whether the contract contains clauses that are confidential, and if so, the reasons for confidentiality; 
the requirement to publish information about certain procurements in annual reports; and
the requirement to make available, on request, the names of any subcontractors engaged to perform services in relation to the Deed of Standing Offer (as such, Tenderers must inform all potential subcontractors that their participation in fulfilling obligations under the Deed of Standing Offer may be publicly disclosed and obtain their agreement to this).
Workplace Gender Equality 
Australian Government policy prevents the Commonwealth from entering into contracts with suppliers who are currently named as non-compliant under the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) (WGE Act). The Deed of Standing Offer requires that each Service Provider must:
comply with its obligations, if any, under the WGE Act; and 
if the term of the Deed of Standing Offer exceeds 18 months, the Service Provider must provide a current letter of compliance within 18 months from the Commencement Date and following this, annually to the AEC,
if they are a relevant employer as defined under the WGE Act.
Successful Tenderers should note that if during the term of the Deed of Standing Offer the Service Provider becomes non-compliant with the WGE Act, the Service Provider must notify the AEC. For further information about the coverage of the WGE Act, Tenderers can contact the Workplace Gender Equality Agency on (02) 9432 7000.
Tenderers must indicate as part of their Tender at Annexure B to Schedule 3, whether or not the Tenderer is a ‘relevant employer’ under the WGE Act and, if applicable provide a current letter of compliance with the WGE Act as part of their Tender, or prior to entering into a Deed of Standing Offer.
Environmental policy and procurement
The Australian Government aims to improve the implementation of ecologically sustainable development within its agencies. Copies of relevant policies, such as the National Waste policy, Energy Efficiency in Government Operations policy and the Australian Packaging Covenant, are available at the Department of the Environment’s website:  http://www.environment.gov.au/.
The AEC wishes to be informed of any claims made by Tenderers about the benefits to the environment of the Services including details of actions taken by the Tenderer to:
improve the energy / resource efficiency or reduce energy consumption associated with delivery of the Services;
reduce or eliminate waste associated with the delivery of the Services; and
reduce fuel use, reduce air pollution and mitigate emissions associated with transport.
Tenderers should indicate the particular part of the production process or characteristic of any part of the Services offered by them that they claim is environmentally beneficial in their Tender at Annexure G to Schedule 3.
Employee entitlements
It is Australian Government policy not to contract with suppliers who have had a judicial decision against them (not including decisions under appeal) relating to employee entitlements and who have not paid the claim.
To enable the AEC to confirm the Tenderer’s compliance with this requirement, each Tenderer must complete the Tenderer's Declaration.
Illegal workers
It is Australian Government policy not to contract with suppliers that engage illegal workers. 
Lobbying Code of Conduct
A person engaged as a contractor by the AEC will be a "government representative" for the purposes of the Lobbying Code of Conduct, and will be required to comply with the Lobbying Code of Conduct.  A copy of the Lobbying Code of Conduct is available at: https://lobbyists.ag.gov.au/about/code.
The Tenderer must, and must ensure that its subcontractors (if any) will, comply with the Lobbying Code of Conduct and the Australian Public Service Commission (APSC) Circular 2008/4, Requirements relating to the Lobbying Code of Conduct and Post Separation Contact with Government where their activities fall within the scope of the Lobbying Code of Conduct.
Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct
It is a condition of this tender that the Tenderer complies with the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct (ttps://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct). 
To enable the AEC to confirm the Tenderer’s compliance with this requirement, each Tenderer must complete the Tenderer’s Declaration.
- Statement of Requirements
Note to Tenderers: See separate attachment
Schedule 2 - Draft Deed of Standing Offer
Note to Tenderers: See separate attachment
Schedule 3 - Tender Form
Request for Tender for provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment for Electoral Events
RFT:  AEC SRC006427
This Schedule 3 contains the Annexures set out below.  Tenderers should use the list below as a checklist to ensure that they have completed all of the necessary Annexures.  The Annexure letter, heading and (where applicable) signature block should be included for each Annexure to this Tender Form.  
Annexure A – Contact details
Annexure B – Tenderer’s Declaration (Deed Poll)
Annexure C – Executive summary
Annexure D – Pricing Schedule
Annexure E – Financial and commercial capacity
Annexure F – Compliance Statement
Annexure G – Understanding of and approach to the Services
Annexure H – Track record
Annexure I – Management of Changed Requirements at Short Notice
Annexure J - Experience and qualifications of Specified Personnel
Annexure K – Value Added Services
Annexure L – Tenderer Confidential Information
Annexure M – Conflict of Interest
Annexure N – Risk Management Plan
Annexure O – Indicative Delivery Timings
– Contact details
Tenderer details
Details of subcontractors
Note to Tenderers:  Repeat the box below as necessary.
– Tenderer’s Declaration (Deed Poll)
Parties	
By 	[Insert name of person executing the Deed Poll] of [Insert address of person signing the Deed Poll] (Representative)
In favour
of	The Commonwealth of Australia represented by the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC)
Background
The AEC has issued a Request for Tender AEC SRC006427 for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment for Electoral Events (RFT).
As part of the RFT process, the AEC requires the Tenderer to provide this Tenderer's Declaration. 
Operative provisions
Authority
The Representative holds the position of [managing director or other title] of the Tenderer and is duly authorised to execute this deed on the Tenderer’s behalf.
The Representative executes this deed on behalf of the Tenderer and on behalf of itself. 
Definitions and interpretation
In this deed:
Tender means the tender lodged by the Tenderer in connection with the RFT;
Tenderer means [list name, ABN and physical address of Tenderer] and in this deed includes the Representative; and
all other capitalised terms have the same meaning as in the RFT.
In this deed headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation and unless the context indicates a contrary intention:
a reference to a party includes that party's executors, administrators, successors and that party's permitted assigns, including persons taking by way of novation;
a reference to a part, clause, schedule, exhibit, attachment or annexure is a reference to a clause, schedule, exhibit, attachment or annexure to or of this deed poll;
a reference to an Annexure is a reference to an Annexure to the Tenderer's Tender Form;
a reference to a document (including this deed poll) is to that document as varied, novated, ratified or replaced from time to time;
a word importing the singular includes the plural (and vice versa), and a word indicating a gender includes every other gender;
if a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other part of speech or grammatical form of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning; and
the word "includes" in any form is not a word of limitation.
The offer and change of circumstances
To the best of the Tenderer's knowledge after having made proper enquiry, the Tender is accurate in every respect. The Tenderer acknowledges that if it is found to have made false or misleading claims or statements, or to have used Confidential Information improperly obtained, or received improper assistance, except in accordance with the RFT, the AEC may reject at any time any Tender lodged by or on behalf of the Tenderer.
The Tenderer agrees:
that the Tenderer will be bound by its Tender for the Tender Validity Period;
that its Tender may be accepted by the AEC at any time before the expiration of the Tender Validity Period or as agreed between the Tenderer and the AEC;
that its Tender will not be deemed to be accepted except as specified in the RFT;
that the AEC is not bound to accept the lowest priced or any Tender; and
to promptly notify the AEC of any change, after submission of its Tender, to the basis upon which it will have access to the necessary skills, resources or corporate or financial backing to perform the Deed of Standing Offer.
Where a change referred to in clause 9.9 of the RFT would alter any of the information or assurances that the Tenderer has given in its Tender, the Tenderer undertakes to promptly:
notify the AEC;
identify with specificity (including all relevant page, section, clause, Schedule, exhibit and other like references to its Tender, and any other material and information provided to the AEC) all such information and assurances; and
state in detail the alterations to such information and assurances required by such change.
Tenderer's conduct
The Tenderer represents that, to the best of its knowledge after having made proper enquiry, it has:
not made any false declarations in respect of any current or past dealings with the AEC, including in any procurement process or in any contract for goods, services or construction works;
had no significant deficiency in the performance of any substantive requirement or obligation under any prior contract with the AEC which would materially adversely affect the Tenderer’s ability to deliver the Services as required;
the skills and resources (including, without limitation, corporate and financial resources), or will be able to obtain the skills and resources, likely to be required to properly provide the Services; 
not, in connection with the RFT process:
engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct; or
engaged in any collusive tendering, anti-competitive conduct, or any other unlawful or unethical conduct with any other Tenderer, or any other person;
examined the RFT and any other information made available to it in writing by the AEC for the purpose of this RFT;
examined all further information which is obtainable by making reasonable enquiries relevant to the risks, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its Tender; and
satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its Tender.
The Tenderer has not attempted to influence improperly any officer, employee or agent of the AEC, or violated any applicable laws or the AEC policies regarding the offering of inducements in connection with the RFT process.
The Tenderer has not prepared its Tender with the improper assistance of employees or former employees, or any contractor or former contractors of the AEC or with the use of information improperly obtained or in breach of an obligation of confidentiality.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees, agents or contractors had knowledge of the content of any Tender (including price) of any other Tenderer prior to the Tenderer submitting its Tender.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees, agents or contractors disclosed the content of the Tender (including price) submitted by the Tenderer to any other Tenderer or to any other person or organisation, excluding any subcontractors listed at Annexure A of the Tenderer’s Tender, prior to the RFT Closing Time.
Prior to the Tenderer submitting its Tender, neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees, agents or contractors entered into any contract, agreement, arrangement or understanding that if successful, the Tenderer would pay any money, or would provide any other benefit or other financial advantage, to or for the benefit of any other party who unsuccessfully responded to the RFT.
If the Tender is lodged via AusTender the Tenderer warrants that it has taken reasonable steps to ensure that the Tender files are free from any Harmful Code which may affect AusTender or the AEC's computing environment.
Costs
The Tenderer acknowledges that participation in any stage of the RFT process, or in relation to any matter concerning the RFT, will be at its sole risk, cost and expense.  The Tenderer will be, and the AEC will not be, responsible in any circumstance for any costs or expenses incurred by the Tenderer related to:
responding to, or complying with the requirements of, the RFT or the RFT process, or
taking any other action, including any dispute or response, in relation to the RFT or the RFT process.
Political neutrality and Conflict of Interest
Apart from any actual or potential Conflict of Interest declared in Annexure M of Schedule 3 at the date of submitting the Tender, no Conflict of Interest exists or might arise concerning the Tenderer in respect of the RFT or the Tenderer's obligations under any Deed of Standing Offer arising from the RFT process.
If at any time prior to entering into a Deed of Standing Offer, an actual or potential Conflict of Interest of the nature specified in clause 9.4 of the RFT arises or may arise, the Tenderer will notify the AEC in writing of that Conflict of Interest. 
Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth)
The Tenderer warrants and undertakes that, for the purposes of the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth), it is: [Please tick the relevant box]
a relevant employer, and submits a letter of compliance with the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) as part of this Tender;
a relevant employer and acknowledges a letter of compliance with the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) will need to be submitted, if the Tenderer is successful, before a Deed of Standing Offer can be entered into; or
not a relevant employer.
For the purposes of this clause, relevant employer is defined as being a non-public sector employer (including higher education institutions, trade unions and not-for profit organisations) of 100 or more employees in Australia. 
Lobbying Code of Conduct
The Tenderer represents and warrants that it has not breached the Lobbying Code of Conduct or the Australian Public Service Commission (APSC) Circular 2008/4, Requirements relating to the Lobbying Code of Conduct and Post Separation Contact with Government where its activities fall within the scope of the Lobbying Code of Conduct.
Supplier Code of Conduct
The Tenderer represents and warrants that, as at the date of its tender, it is compliance with the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct, published on 1 July 2024, as updated from time to time (https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct). 
Employee entitlements
The Tenderer represents and warrants that neither it nor any of its subcontractors (if any), having made all reasonable enquiries, has any unsettled judicial decisions against it relating to unpaid employee entitlements.
Black economy procurement connected policy
The Tenderer represents that if it is the successful tenderer:
it will ensure that any first tier subcontractor not included in its Tender that it subsequently engages to deliver goods or services with an estimated value of over $4 million (GST inclusive) provides it with a Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record that is Valid at the time of entry into the subcontract; and
if its Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record is or will be no longer Valid at the time any Deed of Standing Offer will be entered into with the AEC, it will, if requested by the AEC, provide the AEC with a renewed Valid and Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record prior to the Deed of Standing Offer being entered into.
Laws
The Tenderer represents that, to the best of its knowledge after having made proper enquiry, it has complied with, and will continue to comply with all relevant laws in preparing and lodging its Tender and taking part in the RFT process.
Security, probity and financial checks
Without limiting clause 4.5 of the RFT, the Tenderer consents, and has obtained or will obtain all necessary consents (including from subcontractors and Related Bodies Corporate), to the AEC and its officers, employees, agents or advisers:
performing such security, probity and financial checks and procedures as the AEC, in its absolute discretion, may determine are necessary (including in relation to subcontractors and Related Bodies Corporate); and
seeking any financial information required for the purpose of establishing the financial viability of the Tenderer.
The Tenderer agrees to provide, at its cost, all reasonable assistance to the AEC to assist it in performing any checks and procedures.
Acknowledgement and agreement
The Tenderer has read the RFT and understands the RFT process and its requirements.
In particular, the Tenderer confirms the acknowledgements on its part found in clauses 9.13 and 9.14 of the RFT.
The Tenderer represents that it will not, in negotiating the terms of any Deed of Standing Offer with the AEC, depart from the information it has provided or statements or claims it has made in its Tender in a manner that is detrimental or disadvantageous to the AEC.
Without limiting or being constrained by any other clause of this deed, the Tenderer agrees to comply with the RFT, including obligations and acknowledgments contained in the RFT, and acknowledges and agrees that the AEC may exercise any of its rights in or in respect of the RFT process.
Governing law
This deed is subject to and is to be construed in accordance with the laws in force in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The courts of the Australian Capital Territory will have non-exclusive jurisdiction to decide any matter arising out of this deed.
Execution
Executed as a deed poll
– Executive summary
Tenderers should provide a brief summary of their Tender below.
This summary should not contain any information that the Tenderer would not wish to have made available in the public domain. 
– Pricing Schedule
Tenderers must include a proposed Pricing Schedule for the Services using the excel spreadsheet provided as an Attachment to this Annexure D. 
Tendered prices for the Services must:
be submitted on both a GST inclusive and GST exclusive basis and otherwise include all applicable Australian and overseas taxes, duties, and charges; and
include all costs and expenses necessary and incidental to the proper delivery of the Services, including all surcharges and additional fees such as transport charges, among others.
Tenderers must include details of any assumptions or other caveats on which their Tender is based, the price effect of the assumptions, and information or events required to remove caveats.
Where possible, prices will be fixed for the Deed Period of the Deed of Standing Offer.
Using the spreadsheet provided, Tenderers should specify any volume discounts that the AEC will be entitled to and any ‘package pricing’ that can be offered within and across Jurisdictions or nationally (where relevant). 
When determining their proposed pricing, Tenderers should be aware of the functions of the AEC and the fact that the successful Tenderer will be required to seek to minimise any disruption to the AEC's performance of its functions when performing the Services.
Tenderers should also note clause 6.6 of the RFT in preparing this Pricing Schedule.
The excel spreadsheet provided as an Attachment to this Annexure D, provides the most up-to-date indicative information on possible delivery sites and requirement volumes. To assist to Tenderers, there is also indicative delivery timing and profile information based on 2025 Federal Election estimations available in Annexure O
– Financial and commercial capacity 
Each Tenderer must satisfy the AEC of its financial and commercial capacity to provide the Services in accordance with the Deed of Standing Offer.
Each Tenderer should provide the following or equivalent information to satisfy the AEC of its financial and commercial capacity:
details of its ownership structure;
Australian Business Number for GST purposes; 
if registered with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, any Australian Company Number or Australian Registered Body Number;
if registered under State or Territory legislation, any registered business name or association name;
a full description of the Tenderer's current operations;
the names of all directors and officers of the Tenderer's organisation; and
business profiles and corporate objectives and priorities of its organisation.
If the Tenderer is a company it should provide:
full details of the legal and financial relationship between itself and any Related Body Corporate;
the names of all directors and officers and business profiles and corporate objectives and priorities for each Related Body Corporate; and
the details of its largest shareholders.
If the Tenderer is a partnership it should provide the names and addresses of all partners and a copy of the partnership deed.
The Tenderer should disclose any civil or criminal prosecutions within the past five years of the Tenderer, any Related Body Corporate, any partner or any director or officer of the foregoing concerning any of the following, or any allegation of the following:
failure to pay any taxes, levies, fees, duties, or other similar payments to the Commonwealth of Australia, to any State or local taxing authority within Australia or to any foreign taxing authority;
malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance of any duties imposed by law in Australian or in any foreign jurisdiction; or
participation in, or acquiescence to, any practices in the dealing with any government in Australia or any foreign jurisdiction that are unlawful under the law of Australia or the foreign jurisdiction concerned, or (if relating to a parent entity or Related Body Corporate or director or officer thereof) under the law of any jurisdiction that such parent entity or related organisation is subject to.
The Tenderer should disclose any pending investigation of a similar nature as the items described in paragraph 5 of any of the entities or persons indicated in this Annexure E of which such entity or person has actual notice.
The Tenderer should provide the following (or equivalent information) to satisfy the AEC of its financial capacity:
annual reports or audited financial statements for its last three years of operation.  If the statements are not audited, the Tenderer should provide pre-audited statements;
descriptions of any recent changes of substance in the Tenderer's financial position that are not reflected in the most recent annual report or financial statement provided pursuant to paragraph 7(a) above;
a summary of any court actions, charges, liens or encumbrances affecting the Tenderer's assets or the ownership of the Tenderer or any directors or partners of the Tenderer (including any such court actions, charges, liens, or incumbencies affecting any parent entity);
details of any significant events, matters or circumstances which have arisen since the end of the last financial year which may significantly affect the Tenderer’s ability to perform the Deed of Standing Offer;
details of insurance cover held and/or proposed in respect of the Deed of Standing Offer.  Such details should include, but need not be limited to:
types of insurance coverage held;
details of any blanket policy held; and
amount of cover provided in each policy;
a statement confirming the solvency of the Tenderer and any Related Body Corporate, principal share and equity holders and partners;
a statement that the Tenderer is not aware of any application to place the Tenderer or any Related Body Corporate, principal share and equity holders or partners in liquidation, administration or the equivalent; and
any other factors the Tenderer desires to describe to support its demonstration of its financial capacity.
Newly-formed organisations
If the Tenderer does not have an established track record of service delivery (for example if the Tenderer has been recently created):
the AEC expects that the Tenderer will provide sufficient information and assurances in the categories above in order to satisfy the AEC that the Tenderer has access to the necessary resources and will have an appropriate level of financial backing, to perform the Deed of Standing Offer; and
the Tenderer should provide the information and assurances requested for each entity that the Tenderer will be dependent upon for any financial backing including without limitation:
full details of each entity's proposed role in, or relevance to, the performance of the Deed of Standing Offer;
a description of any current or past co-operative ventures between the entities supporting the Tenderer; and
a description of each entity's proposed liability, and any limitations on its liability, relating to the performance of the Deed of Standing Offer.
– Compliance Statement
Each Tenderer is to state in its Tender whether it complies with each clause of this RFT, including clauses in the Statement of Requirements at Schedule 1 and clauses in the draft Deed of Standing Offer at Schedule 2.   
A set of tables is provided below for the Tenderer to indicate its responses. The Tenderer should cross-refer to the RFT, Deed of Standing Offer and Statement of Requirements and indicate in the appropriate column, by way of a tick (P) whether the Tenderer fully complies, partially complies or does not comply with each provision.  
Where the Tenderer only partially complies or does not comply, the Tenderer should indicate the reason for, and extent of, non-compliance and propose any alternate wording for the relevant provision. The Tenderer should also provide reasons for any alternative wording.
The expressions used have the following meaning:
"complies" means:
in the case of a clause which imposes a contractual condition, that the condition is agreed to;
in the case of a clause which specifies a characteristic or performance to be met by the Tenderer, that the Tenderer can (and will) meet the requirement as specified;
in the case of a clause which is of an informative nature only, the clause has been read, understood and is agreed; or
in the case of a clause where information has been requested, that the information has been provided in the required level of detail and in the required format;
"does not comply" means that the contractual obligation, characteristic or performance requirement of the clause cannot be met by the Tenderer; and
"partially complies" means that the contractual condition, characteristic or performance requirement of the clause can be substantially met, subject to certain specified qualifications.
The Tenderer can respond by stating that it complies with all or a group of clauses and paragraphs and note its response on an exceptions basis by separately identifying the clauses or paragraphs with which it partially complies or does not comply.  
The AEC will consider the Tenderer's Compliance Statement in its evaluation of Tenders in accordance with the RFT.  If the Tenderer fails to respond to this Schedule and does not clearly mitigate its risk to the AEC elsewhere in its Tender, its Tender may be evaluated as a high risk to AEC.
The AEC does not intend to negotiate in relation to any clause or schedule in the draft Deed of Standing Offer if the Tenderer's Compliance Statement concerning that clause or schedule contains a response of "complies".
RFT 
Schedule 1 Statement of Requirements
Schedule 2 Draft Deed of Standing Offer
– Understanding of and approach to the Services
Tenderer’s approach, clearly demonstrating their capacity and capability to deliver and invoice the Services.
Tenderers must provide detailed information on their proposed solution to the delivery of the Services set out in the Statement of Requirements, including: What processes does the Tenderer have in place to ensure they will be able to supply the quantity and types of materials they are offering, with the required specifications (see pricing schedule photos and descriptions) in the required timeframes?
In addition to your general model for providing the services, how will you specifically consider the following:
Products - What categories of items does the Tenderer proposing to supply? Does it cover all the item categories (e.g. the various furniture items and warehouse operational items such as shelving, pallet jacks, etc.)?
Types of operation - What categories of our operations does the Tenderer propose to supply? Does it cover OPCs, PPVCs and Static polling places?
Geographic coverage - Will the Tenderer service all identified areas/divisions, including rural and remote locations?  What logistics arrangements, distribution centres, and delivery contingencies support this?
In replying, please also elaborate how they have accounted for the fact that their services may not be required for months, or years (i.e. how can the Tenderer ensure stock is available, when required at an uncertain date in the future)?
How does the Tenderer propose to meet the reporting requirements in Item 2.2 of the Statement of Requirements?
In replying, please also elaborate on what measures will be proposed to make the AEC aware of any additional transport costs or surcharges, in advance, and how they intend to provide the AEC with viable options to lessen or avoid such charges, while still meeting agreed delivery and pick up timeframes?
The AEC has previously experienced difficulties reconciling invoice charges to activities, particularly transport charges and surcharges. As such, in addition to any information provided to earlier questions, please provide further specific detail to the following:
Provide an example of the type of document that will be provided to satisfy the invoicing requirements in Item 2.3 of the Statement of Requirements.  
How will they ensure their pricing structure will be transparent to allow reconciliation between services delivered and the agreed pricing structure (including, in addition to equipment costs, all transport & handling costs and all surcharges)?
Noting the answers to the above, are there any other matters not already mentioned that addresses how the Tenderer would propose to meet the Service Levels in Item 3 of the Statement of Requirements?
– Track record
The Tenderer should provide detailed evidence of their experience and track record in delivering furniture and equipment to other clients with similar requirements and challenges to the AEC, particularly in delivery of high volumes with short and rigid timeframes, and with some destinations not known until very late.
Evidence should include two case studies, each including:
a description of the services provided;
the date of commencement and duration of engagement;
metrics (e.g. quantities, number of locations provided to and delivery timeframes) to confirm the Tenderer’s performance and relevance to the AEC’s requirements; and
referee contact details.
– Management of Changed Requirements at Short Notice  
What processes does the Tenderer have to manage short-notice requirements that arise due to: 
AEC operational needs - what escalation pathways, staffing arrangements, or surge-capacity mechanisms are in place?
External/Weather-Driven – i.e. unexpected changes driven by external factors such as extreme weather or local disruptions?  What contingency or mitigation planning is in place (affecting either your own operations (e.g. flooding of your premises, break-ins, etc.) or delivering to operations (e.g. strikes, fuel shortages, etc.) or both)?
- Experience and qualifications of Specified Personnel
Tenderers must identify the Specified Personnel who will be involved in the provision of the Services, including for each nominated subcontractor (where applicable). 
For each Specified Personnel, Tenderers must provide:
a copy of the Specified Personnel’s curriculum vitae (CV);
details of their personal referee(s); and
details of the function(s) / role that the Specified Personnel will be performing.  
Note to Tenderers:  Repeat the box below as necessary for each Specified Personnel.
– Value Added Services
The AEC is interested in any value added goods and services that the Tenderer is able to offer to the AEC beyond the Service Levels and the standards of performance within the Statement of Requirements (Value Added Service). 
What additional value added services and/or innovative solutions using their industry-specific experience does the Tenderer propose to offer that may enhance AEC outcomes?
Details of volume discounts should be submitted in the Pricing Schedule.  
Where a Value Added Service is proposed, a Tenderer must: 
separately identify, in detail, the proposed Value Added Service; 
justify the Value Added Service with explicit reasons;
propose such additional contractual provisions as are necessary to accommodate the Value Added Service; and 
explain the financial impact (including both the impact on the Tenderer's Pricing Schedule and the impact on the AEC's own resource costs) and any other consequences of the Value Added Service.
Supply Model (Hire / Purchase / Both):
Does the supply model the Tenderer proposes include innovative contracting options such as a purchase with buy back model or other?  Has the Tenderer clearly articulated how these models will operate?
– Tenderer Confidential Information 
Tenderers should identify any information that they are providing to the AEC in, or related to, their Tender that the Tenderer considers should be subject to an obligation of confidence on the part of the AEC during this RFT process, during the negotiation phase or during the term of any Deed of Standing Offer.  
Tenderers should be aware that only information that satisfies the Confidentiality Test will be treated as confidential by the AEC. 
Note to Tenderers:  Refer to clause 9.8 of the RFT.
– Conflict of Interest
The Tenderer should declare any circumstances or relationships that constitute or may constitute an actual or potential Conflict of Interest in respect of the RFT or the Tenderer's obligations under any Deed of Standing Offer arising from the RFT process. 
Tenderers are reminded that Conflict of Interest is defined to include circumstances where a direct or indirect relationship or interest the Tenderer has or its personnel have may be seen to compromise the political neutrality of the AEC. 
The Tenderer should also set out its proposed strategy for managing Conflict(s) of Interest.
Note to Tenderers:  Refer to clause 9.4 of the RFT
– Risk Management Plan
In completing this Annexure N, the Tenderer has identified management approaches to identified risks and raising additional risks that the Tenderer has identified through its depth of experience and technical expertise.
The Tenderer’s response should demonstrate the quality, depth and rigour of its risk analysis, including the accuracy of identified risks, the suitability of proposed treatments, and the practicality of mitigation measures.  
The draft risk management plan will form a basis for a final risk management plan to be included in the Agreement for the Preferred Tenderer(s).
The following risks, as noted in the table below, should be addressed. Tenderers are encouraged to consider any other risks that may arise from the provision of their services to the AEC and interactions with the AEC and its personnel. As an example, where applicable, this should include details of any actual or proposed security arrangements for supplying the Services.
– Indicative Delivery Timings
As noted in Annexure D, the excel spreadsheet provided as an attachment contains the most up-to-date estimation of site locations and possible volumes.
The Tenderer may, nevertheless, also wish to consider the indicative delivery and profile information below in completing their responses.
Static Delivery Timings in the two weeks prior to polling day – Indicative representation from the 2025 Federal Election
The three indicative delivery timings for statics graphs from three different states shown below provide a general representation of the spread of deliveries in the two weeks prior to polling day. 
The following should be noted:
Polling day for the 2025 federal election was 3 May.
ANZAC Day intervened in the last week prior to polling (hence no deliveries on Friday 25 April).
These graphs are not a representation of actual furniture-only deliveries. They are an indication of when materials, including furniture, were delivered to static polling places (i.e. an indication of the availability of polling place venues for materials and furniture arrivals).
The ‘x’ axis (left hand side) indicates the percentage of total deliveries for that given day made to statics out of 100%. That is, a figure of 15% for a given day indicates the 15% of the statics (in number, not in volume of materials) were delivered on that day out of 100% (with 100% indicating the total sum of statics delivered to).
General Delivery Timing Profile Information – State by State
AEC operations in each state jurisdiction were asked to provide a response to general delivery profile information which was felt may be of value to Tenderers in compiling their responses. These responses are indicative and based on information from the 2025 Federal Election.
Tenderers are requested to use this information as an indicative representation only. The state representatives have provided updated estimations of possible requirements in the spreadsheet which Tenderers are to complete with their pricing information which accompanies the Pricing Schedule (Error! Reference source not found.).
Victoria — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 15 (10 metro, 5 regional)
PPVCs: 111 (52 metro, 59 regional)
Statics: 1,551 (972 metro, 579 regional)
Hubs: 61 (5 dedicated hubs, 7 combined PPVC/hubs, 49 combined static/hubs)
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
≈63% delivered 11 weeks before Issue of Writ (IOW)
≈35% delivered 10 weeks before IOW
≈3% residual deliveries 6 and 3 weeks before IOW
OPCs — furniture type
~80% Hired 
~20% Existing/purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Monday – Thursday Week -3 from Polling Day.
Some Monday – Thursday Week -4 from polling day
PPVCs — furniture type
Primarily loaned.
some ad‑hoc purchases by divisions as required.
Statics — delivery timing & effort
Delivery not used for statics.
Statics — furniture type
Provided by venues at no cost
Western Australia — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
5 OPCs (5 metro, 0 regional)
PPVCs – 70
Statics – ~215 delivered to
Hubs – data not given (PPVCs were used as hubs)
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
First delivery delivered Weeks 0 – 4 from issue of writ,
Second delivery delivered Weeks 4 – 8 from issue of writ,
Third delivery delivered Weeks 9–10 from issue of writ
OPCs — furniture type
~80% hired
~20% existing/ purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Not provided
PPVCs — furniture type
95% hired / 5% owned
Statics — delivery timing & effort
Example from Federal Election 2025 (noting the public holiday for easter and return to school on 28 April)
Mon 28 – 30%			
Tues 29 – 25%
Wed 30 - 20%
Thurs 1 – 15%
Friday 2 – 10%
Statics — furniture type
90% hired / 10% owned within greater metro area
South Australia — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 4 (4 metro, 0 regional)
PPVCs: 36 (15 metro, 21 regional)
Statics: 605 (315 metro, 290 regional)
Hubs: 5
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
Items delivered at various dates leading up to IOW
OPCs — furniture type
~50% hired
~50% existing/ purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Monday – Thursday Week -3 from Polling Day.
PPVCs — furniture type
~50% hired
~50% existing/ purchased
Statics — delivery timing & effort
100% delivered by Friday prior to PD
Statics — furniture type
~15% hired 
~85% existing‑purchased
Queensland — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 15 ( 7 metro, 8 regional)
PPVCs: 50 (11 metro, 39 regional)
Statics: Data not given
Hubs: Data not given
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
100% Delivered 5 weeks before IOW
OPCs — furniture type
~75% hired
~25% existing/ purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Week −3 (Mon–Thu before Pre‑Poll Monday)
PPVCs — furniture type
~95% hired
~5% existing/ purchased
Statics — delivery timing & effort
100% Week −1 (Mon–Thu before Polling Day Saturday)
Statics — furniture type
100% hired
Tasmania — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 3 (2 metro, 1 regional)
PPVCs: 14 (7 metro, 7 regional)
Statics: 281 (85 metro, 196 regional)
Hubs: 16 (no furniture required at hubs)
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
Single drop delivered 1 week before IOW
OPCs — furniture type
Mixture: ~5–10% hired / 90–95% existing‑purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Not specified
PPVCs — furniture type
Loaned from venues (no‑cost from venues)
Statics — delivery timing & effort
Not specified (shortfalls covered with cardboard tables)
Statics — furniture type
Loaned from venues (no‑cost from venues)
New South Wales & ACT — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 19 (6 metro, 13 regional)
PPVCs: ACT: 29, NSW: 473
Statics: ACT: 110, NSW: 2371
Hubs: ACT: 23, NSW: 142
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
9 weeks prior to IOW
OPCs — furniture type
~75% hired
~25% existing‑purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Monday – Thursday Week -3 from Polling Day.
PPVCs — furniture type
Hired: ACT: 12%, NSW: 10%
Provided by venue: ACT: 88%, NSW 90%
Statics — delivery timing & effort
Week −1 (Mon–Thu before Polling Day Saturday)
Statics — furniture type
Hired: ACT: 12%, NSW: 16%
Provided by venue: ACT: 88%, NSW: 84%



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Draft Deed of Standing Offer - SRC006427.docx
============================================================

 Table of contents	
 Details	
Parties
The Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Australian Electoral Commission ABN 21 133 285 851 (AEC).
[Insert name of Service Provider] ABN XX XXX XXX (Service Provider).
Recitals
From time to time, the AEC may require the supply of the Services.
The Service Provider has represented that it has the relevant expertise and experience to provide the Services.
The Service Provider has agreed that on the issue of a Work Order by the AEC, it will supply the Services to the AEC on the terms and conditions of this Deed.
The Service Provider acknowledges that there is no guarantee or assurance:
of any particular volume of Services under this Deed; or
that any Work Orders will be placed with the Service Provider.
 Agreed Terms	
Part 1 - Deed
Definitions and interpretation
Definitions
In this Deed and any Agreement, except where the contrary intention is expressed, the following definitions are used:
Interpretation
In this Deed and any Agreement, except where the contrary intention is expressed:
the singular includes the plural and vice versa, and a gender includes other genders;
another grammatical form of a defined word or expression has a corresponding meaning;
a reference to a clause, paragraph, attachment or annexure is to a clause or paragraph of, or attachment or annexure to, this Deed;
a reference to a document or instrument includes the document or instrument as novated, altered, supplemented or replaced from time to time and any schedules, attachments, appendices or annexures to that document or instrument;
a reference to AUD, A$, $A, dollar or$ is to Australian currency;
a reference to time is to the time in the place where the obligation is to be performed;
a reference to a party is to a party to this Deed, and a reference to a party to a document includes the party's executors, administrators, successors and permitted assignees and substitutes;
a reference to a person includes a natural person, partnership, body corporate, association, governmental or local authority or agency or other entity;
if the Service Provider is a trustee, the Service Provider enters into this Deed personally and in its capacity as trustee and:
any warranties given under this Deed or an Agreement are given in both capacities; and
warrants that it has the power to perform its obligations under this Deed and any Agreement;
a reference to a statute, ordinance, code or other Law includes regulations and other instruments under it and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of any of them;
a word or expression defined in the Corporations Act has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act;
(I)	the meaning of general words is not limited by specific examples introduced by including, for example, or similar expressions;
any agreement, representation, warranty or indemnity by two or more parties (including where two or more persons are included in the same defined term) binds them jointly and severally;
any agreement, representation, warranty or indemnity in favour of two or more parties (including where two or more persons are included in the same defined term) is for the benefit of them jointly and severally;
a rule of construction does not apply to the disadvantage of a party because the party was responsible for the preparation of this Deed or a Work Order or any part of it;
if a day on which an obligation must be performed, or an event must occur by, is not a Business Day, the obligation must be performed on, or the event must occur by, the next Business Day; and
headings are for ease of reference only and do not affect interpretation.
Completion of Schedules
To the extent that the parties have not completed Items in a Schedule, unless otherwise stated in the Schedule or in this Deed, those Items will be taken to be 'not applicable' for the purpose of this Deed.
Priority of Deed documents
If there is inconsistency between any of the documents forming part of this Deed, those documents will be interpreted in the following order of priority to the extent of any inconsistency:
the Agreed Terms;
the Schedules in the order in which they appear;
any attachments to the Schedules in the order in which they appear; and
documents incorporated by reference in this Deed.
Duration of Deed
Initial Deed Period
This Deed begins on the Commencement Date and continues for the duration of the Initial Deed Period unless:
terminated in accordance with clause 8 or clause 39.3; or
extended in accordance with clause 3.2.
Option to extend Initial Deed Period
The Initial Deed Period may be extended by the AEC for the Deed Option Period(s), on the terms and conditions then in effect, by giving a minimum of 30 days' notice to the Service Provider.
Any extension in accordance with this clause 3.2 takes effect from the end of the then current Deed Period.
Standing offer
Standing offer
By this Deed the Service Provider makes an irrevocable standing offer to supply the Services to the AEC at the Fees and on the terms and conditions set out in this Deed.
Service Charges
The Service Charges payable to the Service Provider for performing the Services will be specified in a Work Order and must be calculated using the Fees set out in Schedule 3.
Placing a Work Order
The Service Provider acknowledges that when the AEC requires Services, the AEC will issue the Service Provider with a Work Order.
For the avoidance of doubt, the AEC may issue the Service Provider with a Work Order pursuant to clause 4.3(a), without having issued an RFQ.
Ability to refuse Work Order or respond to an RFQ
On receipt of a Work Order under clause 4.3(a) or an RFQ under clause 4.5, the Service Provider may serve a Refusal Notice, notify the AEC that:
it is unable to perform against the Work Order; or
it is unable to substantively respond to an RFQ, due to a Refusal Reason.
Any Refusal Notice must be issued within the Refusal Period, being within
five Business Days of receipt of a Work Order or an RFQ or any shorter timeframe specified in the Work Order or RFQ.
Request for Quotation
The AEC may, from time to time, issue an RFQ substantially in the form of Schedule 6 prior to issuing a Work Order.
Information in RFQ
An RFQ will include:
the Services and/or Additional Services required;
whether the AEC requires the Services (or any part of the Services) to be performed by particular Personnel of the Service Provider;
the timeframe for delivery of the Services;
subject to clause 4.2, the proposed Fee structure for the Agreement; and
any other specific requirements of the AEC.
Quotations
On receipt of an RFQ, the Service Provider must, within the timeframe specified in the RFQ, provide the AEC with either:
a Refusal Notice stating that the Service Provider will not provide a Quotation due to a Refusal Reason; or
a Quotation by:
completing the appropriate Items in the RFQ and returning it to the AEC;
providing a brief statement that addresses the Evaluation Criteria (if applicable);
if requested by the AEC, providing a curriculum vitae for each of the Personnel proposed to perform the Services; and
if requested by the AEC, providing the contact details for referees.
If the AEC wishes to proceed to obtain the Services and/or Additional Services referred to in the Quotation, the AEC will issue a Work Order.
All Intellectual Property Rights in Quotations provided under clause 4.?(a)(ii) vest in the AEC on submission to the AEC. The AEC grants to the Service Provider a licence to use the Quotation on the same terms that AEC Material is licensed to the Service Provider under clause 18.2.
Agreement
Subject to clause 4.8(b), an Agreement is formed between the AEC and the Service Provider when the AEC issues a Work Order to the Service Provider.
If the Service Provider issues a valid Refusal Notice within the Refusal Period, an Agreement formed under clause 4.8(a) is rescinded.
Completion of Items
To the extent that the parties have not completed Items in a Work Order, unless otherwise stated in the Work Order or this Deed, those Items will be taken to be 'not applicable' for the purpose of this Deed and an Agreement.
Terms and conditions of an Agreement
The terms and conditions of an Agreement are:
the terms and conditions specified in the signed Work Order;
clauses 1, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12 and clauses 10 to 24.3 of this Deed; and
clauses 26 to 43 of this Deed, except that a reference to 'this Deed' in those clauses is taken to be a reference to 'the Agreement' or 'an Agreement' and a reference to 'Deed Period' in those clauses is taken to be a reference to the 'Agreement Period'.
Priority of documents
Subject to clause 4.8, to the extent of any inconsistency between two or more documents which form part of an Agreement, those documents will be interpreted in the following (descending) order of priority:
the Work Order;
this Deed;
the attachments to the Work Order; and
any other document referred to in the Work Order.
No guarantee
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the AEC does not guarantee or make any assurance that any Services or any particular volume of Services will be ordered from the Service Provider under this Deed.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the AEC may obtain the Services from any source it chooses.
Additional Services
Either party may suggest to the other at any time Additional Services to be provided under this Deed.
For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that Additional Services:
do not include anything required to remedy any failure by the Service Provider to provide the Services;
do not, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the parties under this clause, affect the Service Provider's obligations to provide the Services in accordance with this Deed; and
become part of the Services when the AEC agrees to the provision of the Additional Services by issuing a Work Order in accordance with this Deed.
The Service Provider must comply with any request by the AEC for Additional Services on the basis that:
the Additional Services must be agreed between the parties prior to issue of the Work Order; and
the price for the Additional Services must be calculated using the Fees, to the extent applicable.
Not Used
Monitoring progress
Progress meetings
The parties will meet at the times and in the manner set out in the Statement of Requirements and any Work Order (or otherwise as agreed in writing between the parties) to discuss any issues in relation to this Deed or the provision of the Services under any Agreements.
{b)		The Service Provider must ensure that the Service Provider Deed Manager and the AEC must ensure the AEC Deed Manager is reasonably available to attend such meetings and answer any queries relating to the provision of the Services raised by either party.
Reports
The Service Provider must provide the AEC with reports in accordance with this Deed, the Statement of Requirements and any Work Order.
Termination of Deed
Termination for convenience
The AEC may, at any time, by notice, terminate this Deed, including for, or as a result of, a machinery of government change or the establishment of a whole of Australian Government panel or coordinated process for the Services.
On receipt of a notice of termination under clause 8.1(a) the Service Provider must:
stop work as specified in the notice; and
take all available steps to minimise loss resulting from that termination and to protect AEC Material.
If this Deed is terminated under clause 8.1(a), the AEC is liable only for reasonable costs actually incurred by the Service Provider and directly attributable to the termination.
The Service Provider is not entitled to compensation for loss of prospective profits or loss of opportunity.
Termination for default
Without limiting any other rights or remedies the AEC may have against the Service Provider arising out of or in connection with this Deed or any Agreement, the AEC may terminate this Deed effective immediately by giving notice to the Service Provider if:
the Service Provider breaches a material provision of this Deed where that breach is not capable of remedy;
the Service Provider breaches any provision of this Deed and fails to remedy the breach within 14 days after receiving notice requiring it to do so;
a Service Level Termination Trigger event occurs for reasons solely attributable to the Service Provider;
in the opinion of the AEC, a Conflict of Interest exists which would prevent the Service Provider from properly performing its obligations under this Deed; or
subject to the AEC complying with any requirements in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), an event specified in clause 8.2(c) happens to the Service Provider.
Without limitation, for the purposes of clause 8.2(a)(i), each of the following constitutes a breach of a material provision:
a breach of warranty under clause 12.2 (Service Provider warranties);
a failure to comply with clause 12.5(a)(ii) (workplace gender equality and subcontracting);
a failure to comply with clause 16 (Personnel);
a failure to comply with clause 18 (Intellectual Property Rights);
a failure to comply with clause 26 (Confidentiality and privacy);
a failure to comply with clause 27 (Protection of Personal Information);
a failure to comply with clause 30 (Political neutrality, Lobbying Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interest);
a failure to comply with clause 31 (Security);
a failure to comply with clause 34 (Workplace legislation);
a failure to comly with clause 37B (Supplier Code of Conduct); 
a failure to comply with clause 37C (Notification of Significant Events); oe
a failure to comply with clause 38 (Insurance).
The Service Provider must notify the AEC immediately if:
the Service Provider is a corporation and there is any change in the direct or indirect beneficial ownership or control of the Service Provider;
the Service Provider disposes of the whole or any part of its assets, operations or business other than in the ordinary course of business;
the Service Provider ceases to carry on business;
the Service Provider ceases to be able to pay its debts as and when they become due;
the Service Provider is a corporation and enters into liquidation or has a controller or managing controller or liquidator or administrator appointed;
the Service Provider is a natural person and is declared bankrupt or assigns his or her estate for the benefit of creditors; or
the Service Provider is a partnership and any step is taken to dissolve that partnership.
In this clause, controller, managing controller and administrator have the same meanings as in the Corporations Act.
After termination
On termination of this Deed the Service Provider must:
deal with AEC Material as reasonably directed by the AEC; and
return all of the AEC's Confidential Information to the AEC.
Termination does not affect accrued rights
Termination of this Deed does not affect any accrued rights or remedies of a party.
Termination does not affect Agreements
Termination of this Deed does not affect the continuance of any Agreement formed under this Deed.
Transition out
Transition out obligations
The Service Provider must provide the following assistance to the AEC on expiry or termination of this Deed:
cooperating with and providing all reasonable assistance and making available all required information to the AEC in support of the transition out of the Service Provider and the transition to the AEC or any new contractor of the provision of the Services;
doing all acts and things, and executing all documents as are reasonably necessary or desirable, in support of the transition out of the Service Provider;
replying to all and any requests for assistance as expediently as possible to ensure that the Service Provider does not hinder any procurement process or engagement or commencement of any new contractor;
ensuring seamless continuity of Services under each Agreement during the transition out period; and
making Personnel available for discussions with the AEC as may be required. The time, length and subject of these discussions will be at the sole discretion of the AEC, provided that any matter discussed is not considered to reveal any Confidential Information of the Service Provider.
Survival
This clause 9 survives the expiry or termination of this Deed.
Part 2 - Services
10.	Agreement Period
Agreement Period
The Agreement Period begins on the Services Start Date and continues until the Agreement End Date unless:
terminated in accordance with clause 24 or clause 39.3; or
extended in accordance with clause 10.2.
Option to extend Agreement Period
The Agreement Period may be extended by the AEC for the Agreement Option Period(s), on the terms and conditions then in effect, by giving a minimum of 30 day's notice to the Service Provider.
Any extension in accordance with this clause 10.2 takes effect from the end of the then current Agreement Period.
General obligations of the Service Provider
The Service Provider must, at all times:
act reasonably in performing its obligations and exercising its rights under the Agreement; and
diligently perform its obligations under the Agreement.
Provision of the Services
Service obligations
The Service Provider must supply the Services:
to the reasonable satisfaction of the AEC;
with due skill and care and to the best of the Service Provider's knowledge and expertise;
to a high standard and in accordance with the professional standards of conduct applying to the relevant industry;
to meet or exceed the Service Levels;
in accordance with best practice and guidelines, including any specified in the Work Order;
using the Specified Personnel (if any);
so as to keep the AEC fully and regularly informed as to all matters affecting or relating to the Services;
in an efficient, controlled and responsive manner, to a standard that at a minimum complies with this Deed;
continuously seeking to improve the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of the provision of the Services;
using adequate numbers of appropriately qualified Personnel in accordance with this Deed;
in accordance with all applicable Laws;
in accordance with AEC policies and specific requirements set out in the Work Order;
in accordance with any directions in relation to the Services given by the AEC from time to time;
so as to meet the Milestones and other project plan requirements, and where no Milestones or project plan requirements are specified, promptly and without delay;
in conformance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 (available at ) at Level AA as a minimum where the Services involve delivery of content through a web browser;
in accordance with the same standards and obligations that are imposed on Commonwealth Personnel under the WHS Laws;
so as to keep accurate and auditable records relating to the performance of the Services; and
otherwise in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
Service Provider warranties
The Service Provider represents and warrants that:
it has the right to enter into this Deed and the Agreement;
it has all rights, title, licences, interests and property necessary to lawfully perform the Services;
it and its subcontractors and Personnel, including its Specified Personnel, have the necessary experience, skill, knowledge, expertise and competence to perform the Services and (where appropriate) will hold such licences, permits or registrations as are required by Law to perform the Services, and are fit and proper people;
the Services will be fit for the purpose as set out in the Statement of Requirements and Item 6 of the Work Order;
it understands its obligations under the WHS Laws, and warrants that it will comply with all of these obligations for the duration of the Deed Period;
it has and will continue to have and to use, the skills, qualifications, experience and necessary resources to provide the Services in an efficient manner with a high degree of quality and responsiveness to a standard that complies with this Deed;
the Services will be complete and accurate;
any Materials (including Third Party Material) that the Service Provider incorporates in the Agreement Material are new and free from defects in design, performance and workmanship;
it will not, nor will it suffer or permit any third party under its direction or control to negligently introduce into the AEC's ICT Systems or any Deliverables any Harmful Code;
U)		the provision of the Services will not result in the introduction of any Harmful Code into the AEC's ICT Systems;
all work performed under the Agreement will be carried out and completed in a proper and workmanlike manner and in the most cost-effective manner, and using materials suitable for the purpose;
all insurance policies required to be held by the Service Provider under this Deed and the Agreement:
will remain in effect as provided for in this Deed and the Agreement; and
will not be reduced in scope by the Service Provider without the AEC's written consent; and
(m)	it understands its obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth), and warrants that it will comply with all of these obligations for the duration of the Deed Period.
Access to AEC's premises
The AEC must cooperate with the Service Provider by providing access to its premises and facilities as reasonably necessary to enable the Service Provider to provide the Services.
Conduct at AEC's premises
Without limiting clause 31, the Service Provider must, if using or accessing the AEC's premises or facilities, comply with all reasonable directions and procedures relating to occupational health and safety and security in operation at those premises or facilities, whether specifically drawn to the attention of the Service Provider or as might reasonably be inferred from the circumstances.
Subcontracting
The Service Provider must:
not subcontract any aspect of the provision of the Services other than to those entities set out in Item 6 of the Work Order without the prior written approval of the AEC, which will not be unreasonably withheld;
not, in any event, enter into a subcontract under an Agreement with a subcontractor named by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency as not complying with the WGE Act; and
ensure that any subcontractor approved under the Agreement complies with all applicable Laws and:
clause 16.4 (Engagement of Illegal Workers);
clause 17 (Use and protection of AEC Material and ICT Systems);
clause 18 (Intellectual Property Rights);
clause 26 (Confidentiality and privacy);
clause 27 (Protection of Personal Information);
clause 28 (Access to documents);
clause 30 (Political neutrality, Lobbying Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interest);
clause 31 (Security);
clause 33 (Audit and access); and
clause 38 (Insurance).
The Service Provider is fully responsible for the performance of the Services even if the Service Provider subcontracts any aspect of the provision of the Services.
In relation to the Services, the Service Provider:
must, on request by the AEC, provide the AEC with the names of any of the Service Provider's subcontractors;
agrees that the AEC may disclose publicly the names of any of the Service Provider's subcontractors; and
must ensure that any subcontractor agrees that the AEC may disclose the subcontractor's name publicly.
Co-operation with Personnel and contractors
The Service Provider must in the performance of the Services:
fully co-operate with the AEC's Personnel and other contractors; and
use its best efforts to coordinate its activities so as to support and facilitate, in the AEC's best interests, the timely and efficient completion of all work and other activities in relation to the Services to be performed for the AEC by any person.
Monitoring progress
Progress meetings under the Agreement
The parties will meet at the times and in the manner set out in Item 7 of the Work Order (or otherwise as agreed in writing between the parties) to discuss any issues in relation to the provision of the Services. Each party must ensure that their respective Representative is reasonably available to attend such meetings and answer any queries relating to the provision of the Services raised by either party.
Reporting under the Agreement
The Service Provider must provide the AEC with reports in accordance with Item 7 of the Work Order.
Service Levels
Minimum obligation
The Service Provider must meet or exceed the Service Levels.
The Service Provider must provide to the AEC the Service Level Report in the timeframes and containing the information specified in the Service Level Agreement.
Fee Credits
The Fees payable to the Service Provider will be reduced in the manner described in Schedule 4 where the Service Provider fails to meet the Service Levels.
Where this Agreement has ended, any Fee Credits owed by the Service Provider in accordance with the Service Level Agreement will be a debt immediately due and payable by the Service Provider to the AEC.
Acknowledgment
The Service Provider acknowledges that:
the Fee Credits applied under this clause 15 and the Service Level Agreement are not a penalty, but represent a genuine pre-estimate of the expenses and loss which will be incurred by the AEC if the Service Provider does not achieve a Service Level; and
{b)		giving AEC the Fee Credits will be without prejudice to any other rights or remedies that AEC may have against the Service Provider under, or arising from,
this Deed or any Agreement as a result of the Service Provider's failure to meet the Service Levels.
GST treatment of Fee Credits
The Fee Credits are inclusive of GST and, if required under the GST Act, the Service Provider must issue an Adjustment Note in respect of any Fee Credits to the AEC.
Service Level Termination Triggers
In addition to the Fee Credits, if a Service Level Termination Trigger event occurs for reasons solely attributable to the Service Provider, then the AEC may terminate this Deed under clause 8.2(a)(iii) or any Agreement under clause 24.2(a)(iii).
Personnel
Use of Specified Personnel
The Service Provider must:
ensure that the Specified Personnel are of good fame and character, are properly qualified for the tasks they are to perform, and will act, in all the circumstances, in a fit and proper manner while carrying out the work or performing duties under this Deed;
provide the Services or any part of the Services to which their particular expertise relates, with the active involvement of, and using the expertise of, the Specified Personnel; and
ensure that each of the Specified Personnel is aware of and complies with the Service Provider's obligations in providing the Services.
If the Specified Personnel are not available
Where one or more of the Specified Personnel is or will become unable or unwilling to be involved in providing the Services, the Service Provider must notify the AEC immediately.
The Service Provider must:
if requested by the AEC, provide a replacement person of suitable ability and qualifications at no additional charge and at the earliest opportunity; and
obtain the AEC's written consent prior to appointing any such replacement person. The AEC's consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
AEC may request replacement of Personnel
To the extent they are involved in the provision of the Services, the AEC may at any time request the Service Provider to remove any of the Specified Personnel or any of the Service Provider's Personnel.
On receipt of a request under clause 16.3(a), the Service Provider must promptly arrange for the removal of such Personnel and their replacement in accordance with the process outlined in clause 16.2.
Engagement of Illegal Workers prohibited
The Service Provider must ensure that each person engaged by the Service Provider would not, in doing the work for which they are engaged, be an Illegal Worker.
The Service Provider must make compliance by any subcontractors with the provisions of this clause a condition of any subcontract.
The Service Provider must remove, or cause to be removed, any Illegal Worker from any involvement in the provision of the Services.
For the avoidance of doubt, compliance with the Service Provider's obligations under this clause will not constitute a Force Majeure Event, or give rise to an entitlement to claim any delay or otherwise excuse the Service Provider from compliance with its obligations under this Deed or any Agreement.
When requested in writing to do, the Service Provider must provide evidence within 14 days that it has taken all reasonable steps to ensure that it has complied, and is complying with, its obligations under this clause 16.4.
Use and protection of AEC Material and ICT Systems
Use of AEC Material
The AEC will provide to the Service Provider the AEC Material and the Service Provider must ensure that the AEC Material is used strictly in accordance with any conditions or restrictions specified in Item 12 of the Work Order and any direction by the AEC.
Protection against Harmful Code
The Service Provider must take all reasonable steps to ensure that neither it nor any of its Personnel, subcontractors or any other third party under its direction or control introduces any Harmful Code into the AEC's ICT Systems or any Agreement Material.
If any Harmful Code is introduced into the AEC's ICT Systems or any Agreement Material, the Service Provider must:
use all reasonable efforts to promptly report that introduction to the AEC; and
where that Harmful Code is introduced as a result of a breach of clause 17.2(a), it must:
take all necessary action to eliminate the Harmful Code; and
promptly, at its own cost, repair any harm or destruction caused by that Harmful Code.
Protection of Sensitive Election Material
This clause applies where the Services involve the movement or handling of Sensitive Election Material.
The security, integrity and accountability of Sensitive Election Material must be preserved at all times, including during transit and storage.
The Service Provider must implement and maintain the highest levels of security for Sensitive Election Material at all times and, subject to clause 17.3(d), Sensitive Election Material must never be left unattended.
In the event the Service Provider or its subcontractor stores any Sensitive Election Material, that Sensitive Election Material must be stored in secure premises, which have the following (or equivalent) safety and security measures in place:
appropriate fire detection and suppression controls to protect Sensitive Election Material;
recorded CCTV with line of sight to all Sensitive Election Material;
back to base security alarm system;
controlled access to the secure premises, using, at a minimum, an access register; and
the premises must be lockable and the Sensitive Election Material stored separately to any other material.
In the event that it is unclear to the Service Provider if the Material the subject of the Services is Sensitive Election Material or not (without opening the contents of the package), the Service Provider must treat the Material as if it contained Sensitive Election Material.
The AEC may, at its sole discretion, direct AEC Personnel to conduct an on-site inspection of the Service Provider's (or its subcontractors') premises to ensure compliance with these minimum security standards. The AEC may conduct such an inspection at any time prior to the commencement of the Services and at any other time deemed necessary by the AEC.
The Service Provider must immediately notify the AEC of any identified security issues (including any Security Incident) and remedy those issues to the satisfaction of the AEC, at the Service Provider's cost and in accordance with the applicable Service Level(s).
Intellectual Property Rights
Pre-existing Material of the Service Provider
This clause does not affect the ownership of the Intellectual Property Rights in any Pre-existing Material of the Service Provider.
The Service Provider grants to the AEC, a perpetual, irrevocable, world-wide, royalty free, non-exclusive licence (including the right to novate or assign the licence, and to sublicense) to use, reproduce, adapt, modify and communicate the Pre-existing Material of the Service Provider for the AEC's purposes.
Licence of AEC Material to Service Provider
To the extent that the Service Provider needs to use any of the AEC Material for the purpose of performing its obligations under an Agreement, the AEC grants to the Service
Provider, subject to any direction given by the AEC, a royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable licence to use, reproduce, adapt, modify and communicate the AEC Material solely for the purpose of providing the Services.
Third Party Material
The Service Provider must provide Third Party Material necessary or appropriate to supply the Services and any Deliverables.
Before incorporating any Third Party Material into the Agreement Material the Service Provider must procure for the AEC perpetual licences enabling the AEC to use the Third Party Material:
to the extent necessary to obtain the full benefit of the Services; and
from the expiry or termination of this Agreement, to maintain the Deliverables or engage a third party to maintain the Deliverables.
If the Service Provider cannot obtain the licences as described in clause 18.1(b), the Service Provider must:
notify the AEC of the best alternative licence terms for that Third Party Material and not use that Third Party Material unless the AEC consents to those terms; and
if the AEC does not consent under clause 18.3(c)(i), notify the AEC of any comparable Third Party Material and comply with its obligations under this clause 18.3 in respect of comparable Third Party Material.
AEC ownership of Intellectual Property Rights in Agreement Material
All Intellectual Property Rights in Agreement Material vest in the AEC on creation.
The AEC may, at its discretion, make any and all Agreement Material available for use by the public under an Open Access Licence.
Licence of Agreement Material to the Service Provider
To the extent that the Service Provider needs to use any Agreement Material for the purpose of performing its obligations under an Agreement, the AEC grants to the Service Provider, subject to any direction given by the AEC, a royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable licence to use, reproduce, adapt, modify and communicate such Material solely for the purpose of providing the Services.
Where the Service Provider wishes to use any Agreement Material otherwise than for the purpose of providing the Services, it may only do so:
with express written permission from the AEC; and
at the Service Provider's own cost.
Warranty
The Service Provider warrants that:
the Warranted Materials and the AEC's use of the Warranted Materials will not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of any person;
it has the necessary rights to vest the Intellectual Property Rights and grant the licences as provided for in this clause 18; and
the licences conferred under clauses 18.1(b) and 18.3(b) above are sufficient to allow the AEC to make any and all Agreement Material available for use by the public under an Open Access Licence, should it elect, at its absolute discretion, to do so.
Remedy for breach of warranty
If someone claims, or the AEC reasonably believes that someone is likely to claim, that all or part of the Warranted Materials infringe their Intellectual Property Rights, the Service Provider must, in addition to the indemnity under clause 23 and to any other rights that the AEC may have against it, promptly, at the Service Provider's expense:
use its best efforts to secure the rights for the AEC to continue to use the affected Warranted Materials free of any claim or liability for infringement; or
replace or modify the affected Warranted Materials so that the Warranted Materials or the use of them does not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of any other person without any degradation of the performance or quality of the affected Warranted Materials.
Delivery of Agreement Material
On the expiry or termination of this Agreement or on such earlier date as may be specified by the AEC, the Service Provider must deliver to the AEC Deed Manager all Agreement Material.
Moral Rights
Obtaining consents
To the extent permitted by applicable Laws and for the benefit of the AEC, the Service Provider must:
give, where the Service Provider is an individual;
use its best endeavours to ensure that each of the Personnel used by the Service Provider in the production or creation of Agreement Material gives; and
use its best endeavours to ensure that any holder of Moral Rights in Third Party Material included in Agreement Material gives,
in a form acceptable to the AEC, genuine consent in writing to the use of Agreement Material for the Specified Acts, even if such use would otherwise be an infringement of its or their Moral Rights.
Risk management
Responsibility for risk management
The Service Provider:
is responsible for the identification, control, mitigation and management of risks associated with the Services, this Deed and any Agreement; and
in particular, must:
identify and properly categorise in terms of severity all risks; and
comply at all times with AS/NZS 4360:2004 'Risk Management', as updated from time to time.
Subject to clause 20.1(c), where a party identifies a risk or change in an existing risk which may have a significant effect on the performance of this Deed or any Agreement, the party must promptly notify the other party in writing of the risk as well as its strategy to manage the risk.
The AEC is not required to disclose information which has been provided to it by the Commonwealth or another Agency and which is subject to express or implied restrictions on disclosure.
Risk Management Plan
Except where otherwise agreed by the AEC, the Service Provider must:
where no Risk Management Plan is included in Schedule 10 to this Deed, within 20 Business Days after the Commencement Date provide a draft Risk Management Plan; and
if there is a Risk Management Plan included in Schedule 10 to this Deed, at the request of either party review, update, amend and expand, as the
request requires, the Risk Management Plan and provide a revised draft Risk Management Plan,
to the AEC for approval.
The draft Risk Management Plan must:
specify identified risks;
identify who is better placed to manage each risk;
specify the measures to be taken to mitigate the risk by the party responsible for managing the risk; and
The AEC will notify the Service Provider in writing within 20 Business Days after receipt of the draft Risk Management Plan:
whether the draft Risk Management Plan is approved; or
specify amendments that it requires to be made to the draft Risk Management Plan.
The Service Provider must:
finalise the draft Risk Management Plan to produce the Risk Management Plan, if it is approved by the AEC; or
incorporate all amendments required by the AEC to be made to the draft Risk Management Plan unless the Service Provider can provide a reasonable explanation to the AEC for why it should not do so within five Business Days of receipt of the notification from AEC.
The parties will agree to amend this Deed to incorporate any approved Risk Management Plan in Schedule 10.
The Service Provider must keep the Risk Management Plan up to date, with any amendments subject to agreement by the AEC in accordance with this clause 20.2.
Compliance with Risk Management Plan
The Service Provider must manage risks in relation to the performance of its obligations under this Deed and any Agreement in accordance with the Risk Management Plan as amended from time to time.
The Service Provider must report to the AEC, as required, on:
the risks arising in relation to this Deed and any Agreement;
the management of those risks; and
the Service Provider's compliance with the Risk Management Plan.
Payment
Obligation to pay charges
Subject to this clause 21 and the Services meeting Agreement requirements including the Service Levels, the AEC must pay to the Service Provider the Service Charges as set out in Item 14 of the Work Order.
Subject to clauses 21.3 and 21.7, the AEC is under no obligation to pay any amount in excess of the Service Charges.
Service Provider to provide invoice
The Service Provider must provide a correctly rendered invoice to the AEC for the Service Charges, minus any applicable Fee Credits, in accordance with the requirements specified in Schedule 3 and the Service Level Agreement.
Due date for payment
The AEC will pay the Service Provider within 20 days after receipt of a correctly rendered invoice. If this period ends on a day that is not a Business Day, payment is due on the next Business Day.
Interest for late payment
This clause 21.4 only applies where:
the initial value of the Agreement (excluding any options, extensions, renewals or other mechanisms that may be executed over the life of the Agreement) is less than $1 million (GST inclusive); and
the amount of the interest payable exceeds $100.
For payments made by the AEC more than 20 days after the amount became due and payable, the AEC must pay interest accrued on the payment.
Interest payable under this clause 21.4 will be simple interest on the unpaid amount calculated in respect of each day from the day after the amount was due and payable, up to and including the day that the AEC effects payment as represented by the following formula:
SI	= UA	x	GIC  x	D
where:
SI	= the simple interest amount; UA = the unpaid amount;
GIC = the general interest charge rate determined under section 8AAD of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) on the day payment is due, expressed as a decimal rate per day; and
Note: See the ATO webpage at: https://www.ato.gov.au/tax-rates-and-codes/general-interest-charge-rates.
D	= the number of days from the day after the amount was due and payable up to and including the day that the AEC makes the payment.
Correct rendering of invoices
An invoice is correctly rendered if:
it is correctly addressed and calculated in accordance with the Agreement;
it relates only to supplies that have been delivered to the AEC in accordance with the Agreement; and
it is a valid tax invoice in accordance with the GST Act.
Incorrect invoices, under/over payment
If an invoice is found to have been rendered incorrectly after payment, any underpayment or overpayment will be recoverable by or from the Service Provider, as the case may be, and, without limiting recourse to other available means, may be offset against any amount subsequently due by the AEC to the Service Provider under the Agreement.
Expenses
The Service Provider may only claim expenses as set out in Schedule 3 and the Work Order.
Taxes
The Service Provider must pay:
all stamp duty (including penalties and interest) assessed or payable in respect of this Deed and the Agreement and the undertaking of the Services; and
subject to clause 22, all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the performance of this Deed and the Agreement.
GST
Interpretation
In this clause 22, a word or expression defined in the GST Act has the meaning given to it in that Act.
GST gross up
If a party (Supplier) makes a supply under or in connection with the Agreement in respect of which GST is payable, the recipient of the supply (Recipient) must pay to the Supplier an additional amount equal to the GST payable on the supply (GST Amount).
Reimbursements
If a party must reimburse or indemnify another party for a Loss, the amount to be reimbursed or indemnified is first reduced by any input tax credit the other party is entitled to for the Loss and then increased in accordance with clause 22.2.
Exclusion of GST from calculations
If a payment is calculated by reference to or as a specified percentage of another amount or revenue stream, that payment will be calculated by reference to or as a specified percentage of the amount or revenue stream exclusive of GST.
Adjustments
If the GST payable by a Supplier on any supply made under or in connection with the Agreement varies from the GST Amount paid or payable by the Recipient under clause 22.2 such that a further amount of GST is payable in relation to the supply or a refund or credit of GST is obtained in relation to the supply, then the Supplier will provide a corresponding refund or credit to, or will be entitled to receive the amount of that variation from, the Recipient.
Any payment, credit or refund under this clause is deemed to be a payment, credit or refund of the GST Amount payable under clause 22.2.
If an adjustment event occurs in relation to a supply, the Supplier must issue an Adjustment Note to the Recipient in relation to that supply within 14 days after becoming aware of the adjustment.
Tax invoice
A party need not make a payment for a taxable supply made under or in connection with the Agreement until it receives a tax invoice for the supply to which the payment relates.
Indemnity
Indemnity
The Service Provider indemnifies at all times, and holds harmless the AEC (including its Personnel) against, all:
Losses incurred by the AEC in procuring goods and services similar to the Services from another supplier if this Deed or any Agreement is terminated by the AEC for default of the Service Provider;
Losses suffered or incurred by the AEC, including as the result of any claim made in relation to:
loss of or damage to third party property; 
a breach of the privacy of an individual to which clause 27.4 applies; or
the injury, illness or death of a third party;
loss of or damage to the AEC's property; or
Losses suffered or incurred by the AEC in dealing with any claim against the AEC, including legal costs and expenses on a solicitor/ own client basis and includes for the avoidance of doubt, the costs of time spent, resources used, or disbursements paid by the AEC,
arising from:
any act or omission by the Service Provider (including by any of its Personnel or subcontractors) in connection with this Deed or the Agreement;
any breach by the Service Provider (including by any of its Personnel or subcontractors) of its obligations or warranties under this Deed or the Agreement;
any use or disclosure by the Service Provider (including by its Personnel or subcontractors) of Personal Information or Confidential Information (or both, as the case may be) held or controlled in connection with this Agreement; or
the use by the AEC of Agreement Material, including the Intellectual Property Rights and Moral Rights comprised in Agreement Material.
Proportional reduction of liability
The liability of a party (Party A) for any Losses incurred by another party (Party 8) will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent act or omission of Party B (or of its subcontractors or Personnel) contributed to those Losses, regardless of whether legal proceedings are brought by Party A for negligence or breach of contract.
AEC's right to be indemnified is additional to other rights
The AEC's right to be indemnified under clause 23.1 is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power, or remedy provided by Law, but the AEC is not entitled to be compensated in excess of the amount of the relevant Loss.
Termination of Agreement
Termination and reduction for convenience
The AEC may, at any time, by notice, terminate the Agreement or reduce the scope of the Services, including for, or as a result of, a machinery of government change or the
establishment of a whole of Australian Government panel or coordinated process for the Services.
Termination for default
Without limiting any other rights or remedies the AEC may have against the Service Provider arising out of or in connection with the Agreement, the AEC may terminate the Agreement or reduce the scope of the Services effective immediately by giving notice to the Service Provider if:
the Service Provider breaches a material provision of the Agreement where that breach is not capable of remedy;
the Service Provider breaches any provision of the Agreement and fails to remedy the breach within 14 days after receiving notice requiring it to do so;
a Service Level Termination Trigger event occurs for reasons solely attributable to the Service Provider;
in the opinion of the AEC, a Conflict of Interest exists which would prevent the Service Provider from properly performing its obligations under the Agreement; or
subject to the AEC complying with any requirements in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), an event specified in clause 24.2(c) happens to the Service Provider.
Without limitation, for the purposes of clause 24.2 (a)(i), each of the following constitutes a breach of a material provision:
a breach of warranty under clause 12.2 (Service Provider warranties);
a failure to comply with clause 12.5(a)(ii) (workplace gender equality and subcontracting);
a failure to comply with clause 16 (Personnel);
a failure to comply with clause 18 (Intellectual Property Rights);
a failure to comply with clause 26 (Confidentiality and privacy);
a failure to comply with clause 27 (Protection of Personal Information);
a failure to comply with clause 30 (Political neutrality, Lobbying Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interest);
a failure to comply with clause 31 (Security);
a failure to comply with clause 34 (Workplace legislation);
any material failure by the Service Provider to:
implement the Indigenous Participation Plan in accordance with clause 35; or
comply with a direction issued by the AEC Deed Manager under clause 35.3(e);
a failure to comply with clause 37B (Supplier Code of Conduct);
a failure to comply with clause 37C (Notification of Significant Events); or
a failure to comply with clause 38 (Insurance).
The Service Provider must notify the AEC immediately if:
the Service Provider is a corporation and there is any change in the direct or indirect beneficial ownership or control of the Service Provider;
the Service Provider disposes of the whole or any part of its assets, operations or business other than in the ordinary course of business;
the Service Provider ceases to carry on business;
the Service Provider ceases to be able to pay its debts as they become due;
the Service Provider being a company enters into liquidation or has a controller or managing controller or liquidator or administrator appointed;
the Service Provider being a natural person is declared bankrupt or assigns his or her estate for the benefit of creditors; or
where the Service Provider is a partnership, any step is taken to dissolve that partnership.
In this clause, controller, managing controller and administrator have the same meanings as in the Corporations Act.
Consequences of termination generally
On receipt of a notice of termination or reduction the Service Provider must:
stop work as specified in the notice;
take all available steps to minimise Loss resulting from that termination and to protect AEC Material and Agreement Material;
deal with Agreement Material in accordance with clause 18.8; and
repay on demand any advance payments made by the AEC for Services not provided by the effective termination date.
Consequences of termination for convenience
If the Agreement is terminated under clause 24.1, the AEC is liable only for:
payments under clause 21 for Services rendered in accordance with the Agreement before the effective date of termination, minus any applicable Fee Credits; and
reasonable costs actually incurred by the Service Provider and directly attributable to the termination.
The AEC is not liable to pay compensation under clause 24.4(a)(ii) for an amount which would, in addition to any amounts paid or due, or becoming due, to the Service Provider under the Agreement, exceed the total Fees payable under the Agreement.
The Service Provider is not entitled to compensation for loss of prospective profits or loss of opportunity.
Consequences of scope reduction
If the scope of the Services is reduced:
the AEC's liability to pay the Fees or to provide AEC Material abates in accordance with the reduction in the Services; and
the Service Provider must comply with the AEC's directions about the Services remaining in scope and take all available steps to minimise Loss resulting from the reduction in scope.
Deemed termination
If a purported termination by the AEC under clause 24.1 is determined by a competent authority to be invalid for any reason, then that termination will be deemed to be a termination under clause 24.2, which has effect from the date of the notice of termination referred to in clause 24.1.
Termination does not affect accrued rights
Termination of the Agreement does not affect any accrued rights or remedies of a party.
Survival
The following clauses survive the expiry or termination of the Agreement:
clause 12.5 (Subcontracting);
clause 15.2(b) (Fee Credits);
clause 18 (Intellectual Property Rights);
clause 19 (Moral Rights);
clause 21.6 (Incorrect invoices, under/over payment);
clause 22 (GST);
clause 23 (Indemnity);
clause 24.3 (Consequences of termination generally);
clause 24.4 (Consequences of termination for convenience);
clause 24.7 (Termination does not affect accrued rights); and
Part 3 - General requirements
Confidentiality and privacy
Prohibition on disclosure
Subject to clause 26.4:
the Service Provider must not, without the prior written consent of the AEC, disclose any AEC Confidential Information to a third party; and
the AEC must not, without the prior written consent of the Service Provider, disclose any Service Provider Confidential Information to a third party.
Conditions of approval
In giving written consent to use or disclose AEC Confidential Information, the AEC may impose reasonable conditions as it thinks fit.
The Service Provider must comply with any term or condition imposed by the AEC under this clause 26.2.
Advisers and third parties
The AEC may at any time require the Service Provider to arrange for:
its Advisers;
its Personnel engaged in the performance of the Services (including Specified Personnel); or
any other third party, to whom AEC Confidential Information may be disclosed pursuant to clauses 26.4(a), (b) or (c),
to give a written undertaking relating to the use and non-disclosure of the AEC's Confidential Information substantially in the form set out in Schedule 9.
Exceptions to obligations
The obligations on each party under clause 26.1 will not be taken to have been breached to the extent that Confidential Information of the other party:
is disclosed by a party to its Advisers or employees solely in order to comply with obligations, or to exercise rights, under this Deed;
is disclosed to a party's internal management Personnel, solely to enable effective management or auditing of activities related to this Deed;
is disclosed to a subcontractor or related entity for the purposes of performing its obligations under this Deed;
is disclosed by the AEC to the responsible Minister;
(e.)
is disclosed by the AEC, in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of the Commonwealth;
is shared by the AEC within the Commonwealth, or with another Agency, where this serves the Commonwealth's legitimate interests, such as for policy development, research, compliance, regulatory and other non-commercial purposes;
is disclosed by the AEC to the Auditor General, Ombudsman, Privacy Commissioner, Information Commissioner or Freedom of Information Commissioner or their delegates;
is required by Law, the rules of a stock exchange or this Deed to be disclosed; or
is in the public domain otherwise than due to a breach of this Deed.
Obligation on disclosure
Where a party discloses Confidential Information of the other party to another person:
(a)  pursuant to clauses 26.4(a), (b), (c) or (f), the disclosing party must:
notify the receiving person that the information is Confidential Information; and
not provide the information unless the receiving person agrees to keep the information confidential, including in the case of AEC Confidential Information, the receiving person giving the AEC a legally binding undertaking to that effect substantially in the form set out in Schedule 9; or
(b)	pursuant to clauses 26.4(d) or (e), the disclosing party must notify the receiving party that the information is Confidential Information of the other party.
Additional confidential information
The parties may agree in writing after the Commencement Date that certain additional information is to constitute Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed (Additional Confidential Information).
This Additional Confidential Information is incorporated into, and becomes part of the Confidential Information under this Deed, on the date both parties agree in writing under clause 26.6(a).
Period of confidentiality
The obligations under this clause 26 continue, notwithstanding the expiry or termination of this Deed:
in relation to an item of information described in Schedule 5 or the Work Order, for the period set out in Schedule 5 or the Work Order in respect of that item; and
in relation to any Additional Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed, for the period agreed by the parties in writing in respect of that information.
No reduction in privacy obligations
Nothing in this Deed derogates from any obligation which either party may have under the Privacy Act as amended from time to time, in relation to the protection of Personal
Information or information that is protected by the Census and Statistics Act 1905 (Cth), or any other Law requiring secrecy or confidentiality in dealing with information.
Return of information
Subject to clause 26.9(b), at the AEC's request or on the expiry or termination of this Deed, the Service Provider must promptly return all of the AEC's physical and written records containing AEC Confidential Information, and all documentation relating to that AEC Confidential Information (including copies), to the AEC in a form reasonably requested by the AEC.
If requested by the AEC, the Service Provider must destroy such items in the manner specified by the AEC and promptly certify to the AEC in writing that it has done so.
Confidential provisions
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the AEC may disclose the provisions of this Deed.
Protection of Personal Information
Application of this clause
This clause 27 applies only where the Service Provider deals with Personal Information when, and for the purposes of, providing Services under this Deed.
Obligations
The Service Provider acknowledges that it is a 'contracted service provider' within the meaning of section 6 of the Privacy Act, and must in respect of the provision of Services under this Deed:
use or disclose Personal Information obtained during the course of providing Services under this Deed, only for the purposes of this Deed;
not to do any act or engage in any practice that would breach an Australian Privacy Principle (APP), which if done or engaged in by an Agency, would be a breach of that APP;
carry out and discharge the obligations contained in the APPs as if it were an Agency under the Privacy Act;
not take or allow Personal Information to be taken outside of Australia in a manner inconsistent with clause 31.7(c);
if requested by the AEC to do so, arrange for all Personnel of the Service Provider to whom Personal Information is to be disclosed to give a written undertaking substantially in the form set out in Schedule 9;
notify individuals whose Personal Information the Service Provider holds, that complaints about acts or practices of the Service Provider may be investigated by the Privacy Commissioner, Information Commissioner and / or Freedom of Information Commissioner who has power to award compensation against the Service Provider in appropriate circumstances;
immediately notify the AEC if the Service Provider becomes aware of a breach or possible breach of any of the obligations contained, or referred to, in this clause 27, whether by the Service Provider or any subcontractor;
comply with any directions, guidelines, determinations or recommendations of the Privacy Commissioner, Information Commissioner and / or Freedom of Information Commissioner, to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the requirements of this clause 27; and
ensure that any Personnel of the Service Provider who is required to deal with Personal Information for the purposes of this Deed is made aware of the obligations of the Service Provider set out in this clause 27.
Without derogating from any other obligations of the Service Provider under Law or otherwise, the Service Provider must assist the AEC to enable any person, on request, to ascertain in respect of that person's Personal Information:
whether the Service Provider has possession or control of any records that contain such Personal Information;
the nature of the information;
the main purposes for which that person's Personal Information is used by the Service Provider; and
the steps that the person should take if the person wishes to obtain access to the Personal Information.
Subcontracts
The Service Provider must ensure that any subcontract entered into for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Deed contains provisions to ensure that the subcontractor has the same awareness and obligations as the Service Provider has under this clause 27, including this requirement in relation to subcontracts.
Indemnity
Where liability has not been apportioned by the Privacy Commissioner, the Service Provider indemnifies the AEC in respect of any Loss suffered or incurred by the AEC which arises directly or indirectly from a breach of any of the obligations of the Service Provider under this clause 27, or a subcontractor under the subcontract provisions referred to in clause 27.2(a).
Access to documents
Application of clause
This clause 28 only applies if the Services involve the provision of services by the Service Provider (but not goods or financial assistance grants) for or on behalf of the AEC to a person who is not the Commonwealth or an Agency.
Access to security classified information
Where the Service Provider and its Personnel (including Specified Personnel) may have access to security classified information of the AEC, the Service Provider and its Personnel (including Specified Personnel) involved in providing the Services must complete, to the AEC's satisfaction, the Security Awareness Training Program, prior to accessing security classified information.
Provision of documents
Where the AEC has received a request for access to a document created by, or in the possession of, the Service Provider or any subcontractor that relates to the performance of this Deed (and not to the entry into this Deed), the AEC may at any time by written notice require the Service Provider to provide the document to the AEC and the Service Provider must, at no additional cost to the AEC, promptly comply with the notice.
The Service Provider must include in any subcontract relating to the performance of this Deed provisions that will enable the Service Provider to comply with its obligations under this clause 28.
In this clause, document has the same meaning as it has in the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth).
Public interest disclosure
Application
The Service Provider acknowledges that:
the AEC is an agency that is subject to the Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013
(Cth) (the PID Act);
this Deed may be a 'Commonwealth contract', the Service Provider and its subcontractors may be a 'contracted Contractor' and any officers and employees of the Service Provider or its subcontractors may be a 'public official', within the meaning of the PID Act; and
conduct engaged in by the Service Provider or any subcontractor in relation to entering into, or giving effect to this Deed, may be 'disclosable conduct' under the PID Act.
Compliance
The parties must promptly comply with their obligations under the PID Act and the AEC's public interest disclosure policies, at no additional cost to one another, and the Service Provider must ensure that all of its subcontractors also comply with this clause 29 and the PID Act.
Political neutrality, Lobbying Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interest
Political neutrality of the AEC
The Service Provider must:
respect the strict political neutrality of the AEC;
not jeopardise the AEC's political neutrality by any act or omission; and
not associate the AEC in any way with any political activity that they undertake.
Political neutrality of Service Provider Personnel
Where the Service Provider supplies Service Provider Personnel to provide any of the Services, the AEC in its absolute discretion may:
require the Service Provider to ensure that those Service Provider Personnel sign a declaration of political neutrality substantially in the form set out in Schedule 9 to ensure that such Personnel are aware of the requirement in clause 30.1; and
request the removal of such Service Provider Personnel who do not sign that declaration of political neutrality from provision of the Services, in accordance with this Deed.
Lobbying Code of Conduct
The Service Provider:
acknowledges that a person engaged as a contractor by the AEC will be a 'government representative' for the purposes of the Lobbying Code of Conduct; and
must, and must ensure that its subcontractors, comply with:
the Lobbying Code of Conduct; and
the Australian Public Service Commission (APSC) Circular 2008/4, Requirements relating to the Lobbying Code of Conduct and post separation contact with Government,
where their activities fall within the scope of the Lobbying Code of Conduct.
Conflict of Interest warranty
The Service Provider warrants that, to the best of its knowledge after making diligent inquiry, at the date of signing this Deed and at the formation of each Agreement, no Conflict of Interest exists or is likely to arise in the performance of its obligations under this Deed.
Notification of a Conflict of Interest
If, during the performance of the Services a Conflict of Interest arises, or appears likely to arise, the Service Provider must:
notify the AEC immediately in writing;
make full disclosure of all relevant information relating to the Conflict of Interest and setting out the steps the Service Provider proposes to take to resolve or otherwise deal with the Conflict of Interest; and
take such steps as the AEC requires to resolve or otherwise deal with the Conflict of Interest.
Security
Compliance with Australian Government and AEC requirements
The Service Provider must, and must ensure that its subcontractors and Personnel comply with:
all relevant security and other requirements specified in the Protective Security Policy Framework; and
any other security procedures or requirements notified, in writing, by the AEC to the Service Provider.
The Service Provider must comply with such a security procedure or requirement, from the date specified in the notice, or if none is specified, within five Business Days of receipt of the notice.
31A	Cyber security
Without limiting the requirements in a Statement of Requirements, the Service Provider must take reasonable and prudent steps consistent with industry best practice to reduce the risk of Cyber Attack on Service Provider IT Systems.
At the AEC's written request, the Service Provider must promptly provide details of the Service Provider's security measures in place to reduce the risk of Cyber Attack on Service Provider’s IT Systems.
Security clearance and Police Checks
The AEC may, from time to time, notify the Service Provider of the level of security or access clearance applicable to the Service Provider's Personnel, and the date from which, or the period during which, that clearance will be effective and the Service Provider must comply with and ensure its Personnel act in accordance with that notice.
The Service Provider must, if requested by the AEC, ensure that any Personnel (including Specified Personnel) engaged by or on behalf of the Service Provider meets all necessary security assessments and standards required by the AEC including:
an identity check;
a national police clearance check or equivalent;
signing any forms notified to the Service Provider by the AEC from time to time;
holding Commonwealth security clearances to the level requested by the AEC in accordance with the Protective Security Policy Framework, or as otherwise required by the AEC;
attending and completing an AEC security awareness course prior to or as soon as possible after the Commencement Date at the Service Provider's cost; and
complying with any other security awareness requirements reasonably requested by the AEC.
The Service Provider must prevent Personnel (including Specified Personnel) whose security clearances are revoked, lapse or who no longer require access, from:
having access to AEC premises and AEC Data; and
providing the Services.
The Service Provider must report to the AEC any incidental or accidental contact with security classified information by Personnel (including Specified Personnel) as soon as possible but not less than 5 Business Days from the incidental or accidental contact with the security classified information.
The Service Provider is responsible for all costs and expenses associated with obtaining security clearances.
Storage of security classified information
This clause 31.2(a) applies where the Service Provider will handle or store security classified information of the AEC outside the AEC's premises and/or systems.
The Service Provider must ensure that the premises and facilities used to handle or store security classified information of the AEC meet the appropriate security level as determined by the AEC.
The Service Provider must have the appropriate systems able to meet designated information security standards for the electronic processing, storage, transmission and disposal of official information.
The Service Provider bears all the costs and expenses associated with ensuring that the storage of security classified information meets the appropriate security level as determined by the AEC.
Security Incidents
The Service Provider must report to the AEC any actual or suspected Security Incident as soon as possible but no less than five Business Days from the actual or suspected Security Incident.
The Service Provider must report any incidents or breaches of information and / or communications technology security, not involving AEC Material to the Australian Cyber Security Centre as soon as possible but not less than five Business Days from the incident or breach.
Highest level of security classified information
The Service Provider may have access to security classified information up to the level specified in Item 9 of the Deed Details. If requested by the AEC, the Service Provider must provide evidence that the Specified Personnel have the requisite security clearances to access this information within the timeframe specified in the request.
Essential protective security requirements
The Service Provider must comply with the essential protective security requirements specified in Item 10 of the Deed Details.
Restrictions on use of AEC Data
AEC Data is and remains the property of the AEC.
The Service Provider must not, and must ensure that its subcontractors and Personnel do not:
use AEC Data for any purpose other than directly in relation to the provision of the Services to the AEC;
purport to sell, let for hire, assign rights in or otherwise dispose of any AEC Data;
make any AEC Data available to any third party other than a subcontractor and then only to the extent necessary to enable the subcontractor to perform its part of this Deed or the applicable Work Order; 
commercially or otherwise exploit AEC Data; or
alter AEC Data in any way, other than for the purposes of performing the Services.
The Service Provider must not, and must ensure that its subcontractors and Personnel do not:
remove AEC Data or allow AEC Data to be removed from the AEC's premises; or
take AEC Data transfer, transmit or disclose AEC Data or allow AEC Data to be taken, transferred, transmitted, accessed or disclosed outside of Australia,
without the AEC's prior written consent. 
(d)	The prohibition in clause 31.7(c) applies in respect of taking, transferring, transmitting, accessing or otherwise disclosing AEC Data outside of Australia by the Service Provider:
(i)	within the Contractor's own organisation; and 
(ii)	to any third party, including to any Subcontractor
Where such consent is granted, offshore storage of AEC Data (including in any virtual environment such as the cloud) must be in a manner consistent with all applicable Commonwealth policies including the Information Security Manual and the Protective Security Policy Framework.
Security training
The Service Provider must ensure that, before any of the Service Provider Personnel or subcontractors have access to or are permitted to use AEC Data in any way, they have received any training required by the AEC in relation to the handling and use of that AEC Data.
The Service Provider must bear the cost of any training under clause 31.8(a).
Safeguarding AEC Data
The Service Provider must and must ensure that its Personnel establish and maintain all appropriate physical, technical and organisational safeguards to protect AEC Data in its possession or control against the destruction, unauthorised disclosure, access, loss, damage, processing, erasure, transfer, use, modification, misuse or alteration that:
are no less rigorous than those notified by the AEC from time to time and will be no less rigorous than the safeguards that can be reasonably expected according to industry best practice; and
comply with all Law and any procedures or requirements specified by the AEC from time to time.  
The Service Provider agrees that the AEC and its internal and external auditors, inspectors and such other representatives as the AEC may designate from time to time may, at any time, with reasonable notice, conduct a security audit of the Service Provider's and its subcontractors’ compliance with this clause 31, including the right to undertake a security risk assessment, threat risk assessment or privacy impact assessment.
The Service Provider must: 
	(i)	maintain daily backups of AEC Data in accordance with industry best practice and in such a manner that allows a retrieval of AEC Data to be no older than 24 hours before any issue first affected such AEC Data; and
	(ii)	make reasonable efforts to identify and advise the AEC in writing of, as soon as reasonably practicable, any issues affecting AEC Data which may give rise to a claim for indemnity under clause 23 of this Deed.    
Nothing in this clause 31 is intended to limit the Service Provider's obligations contemplated by this Deed.
Delete, destroy or return of AEC Data
Immediately upon termination or expiry of this Deed, the Service Provider must, and must ensure its Subcontractors:
deliver to the AEC all AEC Data and storage media; and
erase or destroy all electronic records containing AEC Data, which are in the possession, power or control of the Service Provider or of any person to whom the Service Provider has given access.
Upon the AEC’s written request, the Service Provider must certify that deletion or destruction of AEC Data has taken place.
The Service Provider must and must ensure that its subcontractors, perform such deletion or destruction in an appropriate and auditable manner that ensures that AEC Data cannot be re-created, accessed or read.
31.11	Subcontracts
(a)    The Service Provider must ensure that any subcontract entered into for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Deed imposes on the subcontractor the same obligations as the Service Provider has under this clause 31, including the requirement in relation to subcontracts.
Books and records
Service Provider to keep books and records
The Service Provider must:
keep and require its subcontractors to keep comprehensive, accurate and adequate books and records in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards, in sufficient detail to enable the amounts payable by the AEC under this Deed to be determined; and
retain and require its subcontractors to retain all books and records relating to the Services for a period of seven years after the expiry or termination of this Deed or such longer period as may be required by Law.
Costs
The Service Provider must bear its own costs of complying with this clause 32.
Audit and access
Right to conduct audits
The AEC or a representative may conduct audits relevant to the performance of the Service Provider's obligations under this Deed. Audits may be conducted of:
the Service Provider's premises, operational practices and procedures as they relate to this Deed, including security procedures;
the accuracy of the Service Provider's invoices and reports in relation to the provision of the Services under this Deed;
the Service Provider's compliance with its confidentiality, privacy and security obligations under this Deed;
Material (including books and records) in the possession of the Service Provider relevant to the Services or this Deed; and
any other matters determined by the AEC to be relevant to the Services or this Deed.
Access by the AEC
The AEC may, at reasonable times and on giving reasonable notice to the Service Provider:
access the premises of the Service Provider to the extent relevant to the performance of this Deed;
require the provision by the Service Provider and its Personnel or subcontractors of records and information in a data format and storage medium accessible by the AEC by use of the AEC's existing computer hardware and software;
inspect and copy any Material, however stored, in the custody or under the control of the Service Provider and its Personnel or subcontractors; and
require assistance in respect of any inquiry into or concerning the Services or this Deed. For these purposes an inquiry includes any administrative or statutory review, audit or inquiry (whether within or external to the AEC), any request for information directed to the AEC, and any inquiry conducted by Parliament or any Parliamentary committee.
The Service Provider must promptly provide access to its computer hardware and software to the extent necessary for the AEC to exercise its rights under this clause 33, and provide the AEC with any reasonable assistance requested by the AEC to use that hardware and software.
Conduct of audit and access
The AEC must use reasonable endeavours to ensure that:
audits performed pursuant to clause 33.1; and
the exercise of the general rights granted by clause 33.2 by the AEC,
do not unreasonably delay or disrupt (in any material respect) the Service Provider's performance of its obligations under this Deed or its business.
Costs
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, each party must bear its own costs of any reviews and/or audits.
Auditor-General, Ombudsman and Commissioners
The rights of the AEC under clause 33.2(a)(i) to 33.2(a)(iv) apply equally to the Auditor-General, Ombudsman, Information Commissioner, Privacy Commissioner and Freedom of Information Commissioner, or his or her delegate, for the purpose of performing their respective statutory functions or powers.
Service Provider to comply with requirements
The Service Provider must do all things necessary to comply with the Auditor-General's, Ombudsman's, Information Commissioner's, Privacy Commissioner's or Freedom of Information Commissioner's or his or her delegate's requirements, notified under
clause 33.2, provided such requirements are legally enforceable and within their respective statutory functions or powers.
No reduction in responsibility
The requirement for, and participation in, audits does not in any way reduce the Service Provider's responsibility to perform its obligations in accordance with this Deed.
Subcontractor requirements
The Service Provider must ensure that any subcontract entered into for the purpose of this Deed contains an equivalent clause granting the rights specified in this clause 33.
No restriction
Nothing in this Deed reduces, limits or restricts in any way any function, power, right or entitlement of the Auditor-General, Ombudsman, Information Commissioner, Privacy Commissioner or Freedom of Information Commissioner, or his or her delegate.
The rights of the AEC under this Deed are in addition to any other power, right or entitlement of the Auditor-General, Ombudsman, Information Commissioner, Privacy Commissioner or Freedom of Information Commissioner, or his or her delegate.
Survival
This clause applies for the Deed Period and for a period of seven years from the termination or expiry of this Deed.
Workplace legislation
Work health and safety
The Service Provider must in carrying out its obligations under this Deed, comply, and use reasonable endeavours to ensure that its subcontractors comply, with the provisions of all relevant Laws and requirements of any Commonwealth, State, Territory or local authority including those arising under a WHS Law in respect of occupational health and safety.
The Service Provider must, in carrying out its obligations under this Deed, comply, and use reasonable endeavours to ensure that its subcontractors comply, with any of the Commonwealth's work, health and safety policies as notified, referred to, or made available, by the Commonwealth to the Service Provider in writing.
If the Service Provider is required by a WHS Law to report to a Regulator an incident arising out of the provision of the Services:
at the same time, or as soon as is possible in the circumstances, the Service Provider must give notice of such incident, and a copy of any written notice provided to a Regulator, to the AEC; and
the Service Provider must provide to the AEC, within such time as is specified by the AEC, a report detailing the circumstances of the incident, the results of investigations into its cause, and any recommendations or strategies for prevention in the future.
The Service Provider must inform the AEC of the full details of:
any suspected contravention of a WHS Law relating to the provision of the Services, within 24 hours of becoming aware of any such suspected contravention;
any cessation or direction to cease work relating to the provision of the Services, due to unsafe work, immediately upon the Service Provider being informed of any such cessation or direction;
any workplace entry by a WHS entry permit holder, or an inspector, to any place where the Services are being performed or undertaken, within 24 hours of becoming aware of any such workplace entry; and
any proceedings against the Service Provider or its officers, or any decision or request by the Regulator given to the Service Provider or its Personnel,
under a WHS Law, within 24 hours of becoming aware of any such proceedings, decision or request.
WGE Act
This clause applies only to the extent that the Service Provider is a 'relevant employer' for the purposes of the WGE Act.
The Service Provider must comply with its obligations, if any, under the WGE Act.
If the Service Provider becomes non-compliant with the WGE Act during the Deed Period, the Service Provider must promptly notify the AEC Deed Manager of that fact.
If the Deed Period exceeds 18 months, the Service Provider must provide a current letter of compliance within 18 months from the Commencement Date and following this, annually, to the AEC Deed Manager.
Compliance with the WGE Act does not relieve the Service Provider, from its responsibility to comply with its other obligations under this Deed.
Indigenous Procurement Policy
Overview
It is Commonwealth policy to stimulate Indigenous entrepreneurship and business development, providing Indigenous Australians with more opportunities to participate in the economy (see the Indigenous Procurement Policy for further information).
The Service Provider must use its reasonable endeavours to increase its:
purchasing from Indigenous Enterprises; and
employment of Indigenous Australians, in the delivery of the Services.
If any Agreement is (or becomes) a High Value Contract, the mandatory minimum requirements for Indigenous participation, as set out in the Indigenous Procurement Policy will apply.
Indigenous Participation Plan
If a Work Order is issued and the Agreement is, or becomes during the Agreement Period, a High Value Contract, the Service Provider must develop an Indigenous Participation Plan within 20 Business Days of the Services Start Date or the Agreement becoming a High Value Contract, as the case may be, and submit the draft Indigenous Participation Plan to the AEC for its review and approval.
Compliance and reporting
On approval of the draft Indigenous Participation Plan under clause 35.2, the Service Provider must:
comply with the Indigenous Participation Plan;
report on its compliance with the Indigenous Participation Plan to the AEC Deed Manager quarterly during the Agreement Period;
comply with any directions issued by the AEC Deed Manager in relation to the Service Provider's implementation of the Indigenous Participation Plan; and
report on its compliance with the Indigenous Participation Plan to the AEC Deed Manager within 10 Business Days after the end of the Agreement Period (End of Term Report).
The End of Term Report must identify whether the Service Provider:
met the mandatory minimum requirements in the Indigenous Procurement Policy; and
complied with the Indigenous Participation Plan.
If the Service Provider did not comply with the Indigenous Participation Plan it must provide an explanation for any non-compliance (including partial non-compliance).
If the AEC Deed Manager considers, in its absolute discretion at any time during the Agreement Period, that it has concerns in relation to the Service Provider's:
compliance with the Indigenous Participation Plan; or
overall ability to meet the mandatory minimum requirements as set out in the Indigenous Procurement Policy,
the AEC Deed Manager may request the Service Provider to provide additional detail in relation to its implementation of and overall ability to comply with the Indigenous Participation Plan.
The Service Provider must comply with all reasonable directions issued by the AEC Deed Manager in relation to the Service Provider's implementation of the Indigenous Participation Plan.
Termination rights
Without limiting its other rights under this Deed or at Law, any material failure by the Service Provider to:
implement the Indigenous Participation Plan; or
comply with a direction issued by the AEC Deed Manager under clause 35.3(e),
will be a material breach of this Deed, and the AEC may terminate this Deed in accordance with clause 24.2.
Use of reports
Notwithstanding any other clause of this Deed, the Service Provider acknowledges and agrees that the reports it submits under clauses 35.3(a)(ii) and 35.3(a)(iv):
will be recorded in a central database that is able to be accessed by Commonwealth entities and may be made publicly available;
will not be considered to be Service Provider Confidential Information; and
may be used by Commonwealth entities for any purpose, including for evaluation of an offer to provide the Services to a Commonwealth entity.
Shadow Economy Policy
Warranty
The Service Provider warrants:
that at the commencement of this Deed it holds a Valid and Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record; and
in relation to any First Tier Subcontractor it has engaged to deliver goods and/or services with an estimated value of over $4 million (GST inclusive) that the Service Provider holds a Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record for the subcontractor that was Valid at the time of entry into the subcontract by the Service Provider and the subcontractor.
Child Safety
If any part of the Services involves the Service Provider employing or engaging a person (whether as an officer, employee, contractor, or volunteer) that is required by Law to have a working with children check to undertake the Services or any part of the Services, the Service Provider agrees:
to comply with all Laws relating to the employment or engagement of people who work or volunteer with children in relation to the Services, including mandatory reporting and working with children checks however described; and
if requested, provide the AEC at the Service Provider's cost, an annual statement of compliance with this clause, in such form as may be specified by the AEC.
When child safety obligations may be relevant to a subcontract, the Service Provider must ensure that any subcontract entered into by the Service Provider for the purposes of fulfilling the Service Provider's obligations under this Deed imposes on the subcontractor the same obligations regarding child safety that the Service Provider has under this Deed. Each subcontract must also require the same obligations (where relevant) to be included by the subcontractor in any secondary subcontracts.
37A.  National Anti-Corruption Commission
The Service Provider acknowledges that in providing the Services to the AEC under this Agreement, it is a contracted service provider for the purposes of the National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022 (Cth) (NACC Act). The Service Provider and its officers or employees engaged in the performance of this Agreement (and any subcontractors) will be public officials under the NACC Act. 
The Service Provider must comply with any reasonable request, policy or direction issued by the AEC and otherwise cooperate with the AEC in relation to any action taken by the AEC required or authorised by the NACC Act.
37B. Supplier Code of Conduct
For the purposes of this clause, ‘Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct’ or ‘Code’ means the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct, as published on 1 July 2024, as updated from time to time.
The Service Provider must comply with, and ensure that it’s officers, employees, agents and subcontractors comply with, the Code in connection with the performance of this Deed.
The Service Provider must:
periodically monitor and assess its, and its officers’, employees’, and agents’ compliance with the Code; and
on request from the AEC, promptly provide information regarding:
the policies, frameworks, or systems it has established to monitor and assess compliance with the Code, and
the Service Provider’s compliance with clause 37B(b).
The Service Provider must immediately issue the AEC a Notice on becoming aware of any breach of clause 37B(b). The Notice must include a summary of the breach, the date that the breach occurred, and details of the personnel involved.
Where the AEC identifies a possible breach of clause 37B(b), it may issue the Service Provider a Notice, and the Supplier must, within three (3) Business Days of receiving the Notice, either:
where the Service Provider considers a breach has not occurred: advise the AEC that there has not been a breach and provide information supporting that determination; or
where the Service Provider considers that a breach has occurred: issue a Notice under clause 37B(d) and otherwise comply with its obligations under this clause 37B.
Notwithstanding clause 37B(e), the AEC may notify the Service Provider in writing that it considers that the Service Provider has breached clause 37B(b), in which case the Service Provider must issue a Notice under clause 37B(d) and otherwise comply with its obligations under this clause 37B.
A failure by the Service Provider to comply with its obligations under any part of this clause will be a material breach of this Deed.
Nothing in this clause or the Code limits, reduces, or derogates from the Service Provider’s other obligations under this Deed. The AEC’s rights under this clause are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights the AEC may have under this Deed. The performance by the Service Provider of its obligations under this clause will be at no additional cost to the AEC.
The Service Provider agrees that the AEC or any other Commonwealth agency may take into account the Service Provider’s compliance with the Code in any future approach to market or procurement process.
37C. Notification of Significant Events
For the purposes of this clause, ‘Significant Event’ means:
any adverse comments or findings made by a court, commission, tribunal or other statutory or professional body regarding the conduct or performance of the Service Provider or its officers, employees, agents or Subcontractors that impacts or could be reasonably perceived to impact on their professional capacity, capability, fitness or reputation; or
any other significant matters, including the commencement of legal, regulatory or disciplinary action involving the Service Provider or its officers, employees, agents or Subcontractors, that may adversely impact on compliance with Commonwealth policy and legislation or the Commonwealth’s reputation.
The Service Provider must immediately issue the AEC a Notice on becoming aware of a Significant Event.
The Notice issued under clause 37C(b) must provide a summary of the Significant Event, including the date that it occurred and whether any Specified Personnel or other personnel engaged in connection with the Services were involved.   
The AEC may notify the Service Provider in writing that an event is to be considered a Significant Event for the purposes of this clause, and where this occurs the Service Provider must issue a Notice under clause 37C(b) in relation to the event within three (3) Business Days of being notified by the AEC.
Where reasonably requested by the AEC, the Service Provider must provide the AEC with any additional information regarding the Significant Event within three (3) Business Days of the request.
If requested by the AEC, the Service Provider must prepare a draft remediation plan and submit that draft plan to the AEC’s Representative for approval within ten (10) Business Days of the request.
A draft remediation plan prepared by the Service Provider under clause 37C(f) must include the following information:
how the Service Provider will address the Significant Event in the context of the Services, including confirmation that the implementation of the remediation plan will not in any way impact on the delivery of the Services or compliance by the Service Provider with its other obligations under this Deed; and
how the Service Provider will ensure events similar to the Significant Event do not occur again; and
any other matter reasonably requested by the AEC.
The AEC will review the draft remediation plan and either approve the draft remediation plan or provide the Service Provider with the details of any changes that are required. The Service Provider must make any changes to the draft remediation plan reasonably requested by the AEC and resubmit the draft remediation plan to the AEC for approval within three (3) Business Days of the request unless a different timeframe is agreed in writing by the AEC. This clause 37C(h) will apply to any resubmitted draft remediation plan.
Without limiting its other obligations under this Deed, the Service Provider must comply with the remediation plan as approved by the AEC. The Service Provider agrees to provide reports and other information about the Service Provider’s progress in implementing the remediation plan as reasonably requested by the AEC.
A failure by the Service Provider to comply with its obligations under this clause will be a material breach of this Deed. The AEC’s rights under this clause are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights the AEC may have under this Deed. The performance by the Service Provider of its obligations under this clause will be at no additional cost to the AEC.
Insurance
The Service Provider must:
effect and maintain the insurances specified in the Insurance Requirements for the period specified in the Insurance Requirements;
not reduce any insurance policy required by this Deed without the written consent of the AEC;
give evidence of the insurances, and their currency, acceptable to the AEC on request; and
ensure that any subcontract entered into by the Service Provider in relation to this Deed places on the subcontractor, in respect of the subcontractor's activities, the same or similar obligations about insurances, as this clause places on the Service Provider.
Force Majeure Events
Occurrence of Force Majeure Event
Subject to clause 39.2, a party (Affected Party) is excused from performing its obligations under this Deed to the extent it is prevented by circumstances beyond its reasonable control (other than lack of funds for any reason or any strike, lockout and labour disputes in respect of the Service Provider only), including acts of God, natural disasters, acts of war, riots and strikes outside the Affected Party's organisation (each a Force Majeure Event).
Notice of Force Majeure Event
When a Force Majeure Event arises or is reasonably perceived by the Affected Party as an imminent possibility, the Affected Party must give notice of the Force Majeure Event to the other party as soon as possible, identifying the effect it will have on its performance.
An Affected Party must make all reasonable efforts to minimise the effects of the Force Majeure Event on the performance of this Agreement.
Termination
If non-performance or diminished performance by the Affected Party due to a Force Majeure Event continues for a period of more than 30 consecutive days the other party may terminate the Agreement immediately by giving the Affected Party written notice.
Consequences of termination
If the Agreement is terminated under clause 39.3:
each party will bear its own costs and neither party will incur further liability to the other; and
where the Service Provider is the Affected Party, it will be entitled to payment for Services rendered in accordance with the Agreement prior to the date of intervention of the Force Majeure Event.
Dispute resolution
No arbitration or court proceedings
If a dispute arises in relation to the conduct of this Deed or an Agreement (Dispute), a party must comply with this clause 40 before starting arbitration or court proceedings (except proceedings for urgent interlocutory relief). After a party has sought or obtained any urgent interlocutory relief, that party must then follow this clause 40.
Notification
A party claiming a Dispute has arisen must give the other parties to the Dispute notice setting out details of the Dispute.
Parties to resolve Dispute
During the 14 days after a notice is given under clause 40.2 (or longer period if the parties to the Dispute agree in writing), each party to the Dispute must use its
reasonable efforts through a meeting of CEOs (or their nominees) to resolve the Dispute. If the parties cannot resolve the Dispute within that period, they must refer the Dispute to a mediator if one of them requests.
Appointment of mediator
If the parties to the Dispute cannot agree on a mediator within seven days after a request under clause 40.3, the chairperson of the Resolution Institute or the chairperson's nominee will appoint a mediator.
Role of mediator and obligations of parties
The role of a mediator is to assist in negotiating a resolution of the Dispute. A mediator may not make a binding decision on a party to the Dispute except if the party agrees in writing. Unless agreed by the mediator and parties, the mediation must be held within 21 days of the request for mediation in clause 40.3. The parties must attend the mediation and act in good faith to genuinely attempt to resolve the Dispute.
Confidentiality
Any information or documents disclosed by a party under this clause 40:
must be kept confidential; and
may only be used to attempt to resolve the Dispute.
Costs
Each party to a Dispute must pay its own costs of complying with this clause 40. The parties to the Dispute must equally pay the costs of any mediator.
Termination of process
A party to a Dispute may terminate the dispute resolution process by giving notice to each other party after it has complied with clauses 40.1 to 40.5. Clauses 40.6 and 40.7 survive termination of the dispute resolution process.
Breach of this clause
If a party to a Dispute breaches clauses 40.1 to 40.8, the other party does not have to comply with those clauses in relation to the Dispute.
Notices and other communications
Service of notices
A party giving notice or notifying under this Deed must do so in English and in writing:
as directed to the other party's contact person at the other party's address, as varied by any notice; and
hand delivered or sent by prepaid post, or Electronic Communication to that address.
The parties' addresses are specified in Item 12 of the Deed Details or as varied by a notice under this clause.
Effective on receipt
A notice given in accordance with clause 41.1 takes effect when it is taken to be received (or at a later time specified in the notice), and is taken to be received:
if hand delivered, on delivery;
if sent by prepaid post, on the second Business Day after the date of posting (or on the seventh Business Day after the date of posting if posted to or from a place outside Australia); or
if sent by Electronic Communication, at the time that would be the time of receipt under the Electronic Transactions Act 1999 (Cth),
but if the delivery, receipt or transmission is not urgent and not on a Business Day or is after 5.00pm on a Business Day, the notice is taken to be received at 9.00am on the next Business Day.
Survival
The following clauses survive the termination and expiry of this Deed:
clause 9 (Transition out);
clause 26 (Confidentiality and privacy);
clause 27 (Protection of Personal Information);
clause 28 (Access to documents);
clause 31 (Security);
clause 32 (Books and records);
clause 33 (Audit and access); and
clause 38 (Insurance).
Miscellaneous
Ownership of Deed
All copyright and other Intellectual Property Rights contained in this Deed remain the property of the AEC.
Variation
This Deed may only be varied in writing signed by both parties.
An Agreement may only be varied in writing signed by both parties. The parties will generally use the template deed of variation in Schedule 8 for this purpose.
Approvals and consents
Except where this Deed expressly states otherwise, a party may, in its discretion, give conditionally or unconditionally or withhold any approval or consent under this Deed.
Assignment and novation
A party may only assign its rights or novate its rights and obligations under this Deed with the prior written consent of the other party.
Costs
Each party must pay its own costs of negotiating, preparing and executing this Deed.
Counterparts
The parties agree that:
this Deed may be executed in counterparts;
all executed counterparts constitute one document; and
this Deed and any Agreement may be exchanged by means of Electronic Communication.
No merger
The rights and obligations of the parties under this Deed do not merge on completion of any transaction contemplated by this Deed.
Entire agreement
This Deed and each Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the parties in connection with their subject matter and supersede all previous agreements or understandings between the parties in connection with their subject matter.
Further action
Each party must do, at its own expense, everything reasonably necessary (including executing documents) to give full effect to this Deed and any transaction contemplated by it.
Severability
A term or part of a term of this Deed that is illegal or unenforceable may be severed from this Deed and the remaining terms or parts of the terms of this Deed continue in force.
Waiver
Waiver of any provision of or right under this Deed:
must be in writing signed by the party entitled to the benefit of that provision or right; and
is effective only to the extent set out in any written waiver.
Relationship
The parties must not represent themselves, and must ensure that their Personnel and subcontractors do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the other party, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the other party.
This Deed does not create a relationship of employment, agency or partnership between the parties.
Announcements
The Service Provider must, before making a public announcement in connection with this Deed or any transaction contemplated by it, obtain the AEC's written agreement to the announcement, except if required by Law or a regulatory body (including a relevant stock exchange).
If the Service Provider is required by Law or a regulatory body to make a public announcement in connection with this Deed or any transaction contemplated by this Deed, the Service Provider must, to the extent practicable, first consult with and take into account the reasonable requirements of the AEC.
Disclosure of information
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the AEC may disclose information about this Deed, including Personal Information, required to be reported by the AEC.
Governing Law and jurisdiction
This Deed is governed by the Law of the Australian Capital Territory and each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Australian Capital Territory.
Schedule 1 - Deed Details
 Schedule 2 - Statement of Requirements	
Overview
Purpose
The role of the AEC is to deliver an Australian citizen's right to vote, as established and defined by the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 (CEA).
The AEC is responsible for conducting Electoral Events and maintaining the Commonwealth electoral roll. The AEC also provides a range of electoral information and education programs and activities. These activities take place at various venues and locations across Australia.
During an Electoral Event, high volumes of furniture and equipment are hired and purchased by the AEC for use by each Division and State office. Only limited notice of an Electoral Event can be provided to the Service Provider.
In this context, the purpose of this Statement of Requirements (SoR) is to state the AEC’s requirements for Services in support of Electoral Events and invite potential suppliers to provide a solution that meets part or all of AEC’s requirements. 
About the AEC
The AEC has a three-tier office network structure comprising:
a National Office in Canberra;
6 state and two territory offices; and
currently 150 divisions located at approximately 85 locations around Australia.
	Additionally, for the conduct of an Electoral Event the AEC operates:
approximately 65 Out-Posted Centres predominantly in industrial buildings and warehouses; 
approximately 7,500 Polling Places at venues such as local schools and local halls, etc.
Further information about the AEC can be found on its website: http://www.aec.gov.au.
Definitions
In this SoR, the following additional definitions are used:
Services
Description of the Services
The AEC is seeking suitable Service Providers to provide the following Services:
Hire of furniture (e.g. tables, chairs) and/or office (e.g. water dispensers, urns, mats, lockers, etc.) and warehouse operational (e.g. pallet jacks, shelving, fencing, etc. – note, warehouse equipment exclusively at Out-Posted Centres) equipment (see Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT for further details); comprising:
delivery and collection of furniture and equipment;
unpacking/repacking and assembling furniture and equipment;
removal and disposal of packaging material;
meeting the AEC’s timeframes for Services;
dedicated account managers for critical stages within an Election Period; 
reporting on the Services; and
invoicing for the Services.
For noting: while ideally, the AEC would value Service Providers who can provide all the requirements noted in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT (i.e. all types of furniture and equipment, to all types of operation (OPCs and polling places) to all locations) the AEC understands that this may not reflect the business model of all Tenderers. 
As such, while it would value comprehensive offers (covering all operations, requirements and areas) the AEC still wishes to evaluate offers based on the industry specialisation and unique offerings reflected in the Tenderer’s submission. For example: furniture only offers, warehouse equipment only offers, purchase/l-buyback options, etc. 
The Pricing Schedules in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT reflect indicative usage totals for a future Event, while considering information from the most recent Event (Federal Election 2025), including:
a list of AEC locations and their demographic classifications
quantities
periods of hire.
Further indicative delivery graphics and profile information for statics can be found in Schedule 3 Annexure O of the RFT.
Delivery and collection of furniture and equipment to and from nominated venues and locations will generally be for fixed durations for all the required equipment. The delivery and duration requirement for some materials, however, will be staggered at OPCs (and possibly for other locations) depending on the needs for those locations (as an example, see ‘electoral furniture’ categories in the ‘Out-posted Centre’ tab of the spreadsheet template as part of Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT).
The AEC wishes to work with the successful Service Providers to develop efficient delivery patterns for furniture and equipment. This is also critical to assisting the AEC understand and plan for transport charges. Tenderers should factor time to work with AEC staff in each state to plan deliveries (e.g. milk runs) in the planning period directly prior to the election being called. 
Dedicated account manager(s) should have an appropriate level of seniority in the Service Provider’s organisation who is readily contactable and is experienced in performing a client relationship management role. They would be the primary point of contact for: 
managing the Services at a holistic level;
coordinating requests, Services and invoicing arrangements at the national level, where appropriate; and
addressing (and escalating where required) all correspondence, queries, complaints and concerns of the AEC Representative in a prompt and responsive manner.
The dedicated account manager must be available to:
liaise with the AEC Representative during Business Hours, after Business Hours, and on weekends during an Election Period; and
respond promptly to all AEC enquiries and requests.
An alternative contact person of equivalent seniority (or higher) must also be nominated by the Service Provider in the event that the dedicated account manager is not contactable.
On collection of furniture and equipment, the Service Provider must immediately notify the AEC if any AEC Material or Sensitive Election Material is found in the hired furniture or equipment. The AEC Material or Sensitive Election Material must be held securely by the Service Provider, until the AEC arranges for the collection of its material within 5 business days.
The Service Provider is expected to provide the Services in accordance with the AEC’s timeframes, specified in Table 1 below, noting the AEC will engage the Service Provider during planning stages in the lead up to a General Election to discuss this further. Final delivery timeframes will be confirmed prior to the requirement by the AEC in writing in a Work Order.
Table 1: AEC Delivery Timeframes for a General Election
Table 2 below provides an indicative schedule of the Services required from the Service Provider for the collection of hired furniture and equipment from Static Polling Places and PPVCs for a General Election.
Table 2: AEC Collection Timeframes for a General Election
The AEC may request the following Additional Services:
storage of furniture and equipment owned by the AEC; and
delivery, collection and/or transport of furniture and equipment and incidental goods and services.
The AEC may purchase Goods from the Service Provider at the prices set out in the relevant Schedule to the Agreement. A separate work order under the terms and conditions set out in the Commonwealth Contracting Suite will be established should the AEC choose to purchase any Goods. The terms and conditions for the Commonwealth Contracting Suite is at https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonwealth-contracting-suite-ccs#ccs-terms. 
Additionally, the AEC wishes to consider options that involve the purchase of Goods from and sale-back to the Service Provider. The AEC asks Tenderers to use their industry expertise to develop options and provide pricing that allow the AEC to purchase the furniture and equipment and either retain that furniture and equipment, or, if there is no further ongoing requirement on the part of the AEC, for the Service Provider to arrange the pick-up and return of those items for a pre-agreed price. 
Should the Tenderer wish to tender for this element, the relevant pricing schedule should be added to Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT. Pricing should include the purchase price, delivery (transport and handling) pricing, sell-back pricing and pick up (transport and handling) pricing and any surcharges based on the range of furniture and equipment noted in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT.
Reporting
When delivering/collecting furniture and equipment, Service Providers must:
provide reports in a format, layout and style acceptable to the AEC. 
provide daily reports during peak service periods. The content of these reports will include an itemised list of completed deliveries/collections of furniture equipment to the AEC Representative on a daily basis (via email) before 6:00pm local time;
notify the AEC Representative immediately of any variation to the delivery or collection schedules whether due to circumstances within its control or otherwise;
ensure it has sufficient transport capacity and resources to ensure optimal trip and capacity planning to ensure the minimum number of trips are made, including working with the nominated AEC representative to agree delivery and pick up timeframes prior to execution;
ensure that the AEC Representative is contacted prior to the delivery or collection of the furniture and equipment where it is anticipated that additional charges (including any surcharges, as noted in the pricing schedule) may apply, for example as a result of additional trips or weight.
Invoicing
Invoices must meet the requirements of a tax invoice as set out in the GST Act and contain the following information:
the details of the Services e.g. quantities/descriptions/locations/dates/times of the furniture delivered;
contract number;
period covered by invoice;
title and description of the Services;
the amount of any Fee Credits applicable during the invoice period; 
surcharges (including details of those surcharges e.g. justification, location, dates, times) and
any other information reasonably requested by the AEC from time to time.
Service Levels
The AEC requires the Service Provider to meet or exceed agreed Service Levels as detailed in Table 3 with final measurement levels for Service Levels to be included in the proposed agreement.
Table 3 – Draft Service Levels
Note to Tenderers: The AEC will work with the Service Provider to develop a Service Level Agreement (SLA) based on the service levels above. The SLA will involve the application of fee credits should the Service Provider fail to meet the service levels. It is expected that the Service Provider will monitor and report on its performance with the intent to meet or exceed all service levels and actively identify any areas requiring improvement.
For further guidance on the AEC’s current thoughts on developing the Service Level Agreement, please see the Annexure A – Service Level Scenario.
 Annexure A -  Service Level Scenario	
Background
The key constraint to achieving optimal outcomes for furniture and equipment hire concerns uncertainty around the timing of an Electoral Event i.e. the AEC cannot give clear notice of when the next General Election will be held. At this stage, the best information that can be provided to Service Providers on timing is that:
the earliest the next General Election can be called is 7 August 2027; and
the latest time that the next General Election can be called is 20 May 2028.
AEC will also provide guidance on subsequent Electoral Events including General Elections when known.
The Services will primarily be provided in support of three categories of venues with different levels of uncertainty surrounding their requirements:
Out-Posted Centres (OPCs): typically, premises for an OPC are leased for a longer period (e.g. 1 to 3 months) than PPVCs or Static Polling Places. As ballot papers are counted at an OPC they must be secure. There is higher certainty around the furniture/equipment requirements for an OPC.
 Pre-Poll Voting Centre (PPVC): a polling place where an elector casts a vote before Polling Day. Typically leases for PPVCs are approximately 1 month. Premises leased are mostly community centres, schools and churches. Certainty around the furniture/equipment requirements for a PPVC is low but considered better than that for Static Polling Places noting that some PPVC locations will not be finalised until after the General Election announcement has been made.
Static Polling Places: polling places set up in each Division to take the votes of electors for an Election Event i.e. the venue where voters will turn up on Polling Day. Premises for Static Polling Places are often local schools and churches. Leases for Static Polling Places are very short meaning timeframes for delivery and collection of furniture will be limited (e.g. 1-2 days). Static Polling Places have the lowest level of certainty around their furniture/equipment requirements.
Managing uncertainty
It is estimated that the AEC's requirements for approximately 80% of its furniture and equipment needs will be related to OPCs. Noting this, the AEC proposes to manage this uncertainty related to its OPC requirements by:
Engaging closely with Service Providers during planning stages. For example once leases for OPCs are finalised, the Service Provider will be provided the relevant details to help with the delivery/collection schedule; and
Work Orders for OPCs should be established relatively early in the lead up to a General Election i.e. several months prior to a General Election.
The AEC's furniture and equipment requirements for Pre-Poll Voting Centres and Static Polling Places are far more 'fluid' and cannot be fixed until after the announcement has been made. Noting that timeliness for delivery of furniture and equipment is critical, the AEC proposes to manage this uncertainty by:
Providing Service Providers maximum/minimum ranges for its furniture and equipment requirements;
Establishing Work Orders on a Not-To-Exceed basis and drawing down on their value as requirements become fixed;
Selecting Service Providers that will proactively engage with the AEC to actively manage uncertainty and risk.
Service level agreement
As Polling Day draws closer, Service Providers may be unable to meet the AEC's requirements if they have been given insufficient time and the AEC's options to approach alternative suppliers will be restricted.
To reduce the likelihood of this scenario and to better align the interests of the AEC and the Service Provider, a Service Level Agreement is at Schedule 4 of this Deed.
For the purposes of developing an effective Service Level Agreement an example of an optimal outcome for Static Polling Places in a Division is provided below.
Example of Optimal Outcome for Static Polling Places in a Division
An Election Event is announced and the Service Provider is notified. Within 7 days, most of the orders confirming the AEC's requirements are confirmed for each location within the Division. However, some orders can only be provided closer to Polling Day.
Service Providers coordinate the necessary furniture and equipment in line with AEC requirements.
Furniture and equipment is delivered to Static Polling Places with all deliveries being finalised by 8pm on the Friday before Polling Day (Saturday).
At delivery, the Service Provider unpacks the furniture, assembles the furniture, moves it to the approximate vicinity of the desired place within the Static Polling Place and then removes all packaging material.
Furniture and equipment is marked/labelled as belonging to the Service Provider.
The Service Provider obtains approval/signature from the nominated AEC representative at the site that the furniture/equipment has been delivered.
By 6pm on each day during the 2 weeks leading up to Polling Day, the Service Provider emails the relevant AEC representative of all furniture and equipment that has been delivered (Delivery Report). However, on the Friday before Polling Day, 2 Delivery Reports are provided: one at 1pm and one at 9pm.
The day following Polling Day (Sunday), collection of equipment commences at venues where this is possible - some venues may be unable to facilitate collection on Sundays. Photos are taken of any damaged furniture or equipment.
All furniture/equipment has been collected by the second day following Polling Day (Monday).
By 6pm on each collection day, the Service Provider emails the relevant AEC representative of all furniture and equipment that has been collected which includes details of any missing furniture/equipment as well as photos of damaged equipment (Collection Report).
In the following weeks, an invoice is then sent by the Service Provider to the AEC detailing all furniture and equipment that has been delivered and collected from the relevant sites. The details in this invoice can be clearly
reconciled to the Delivery/Collection reports as well as the AEC's initial orders. No surcharges or levies are included that have not been agreed with the AEC prior and such surcharges and levies, if included, can be clearly and easily traced back to determine how they were incurred.
Some potential factors leading to sub-optimal outcomes in this example are provided below:
The Service Provider is unable to meet the AEC's requirements for furniture and equipment in terms of quality and quantity leading to the AEC approaching other suppliers;
Faulty furniture or equipment is reported to the Service Provider but action taken to replace the faulty equipment is delayed;
Furniture and equipment is not marked accurately which leads to confusion during collection and preparing Collection Reports;
Invoices provide insufficient detail and do not reconcile with Collection Reports or Delivery Reports, including surcharges and levies.
 Schedule 3 - Fees for Services	
Fees for Services are provided separately in Annexure B: - SRC 006427 Pricing – [insert Service Provider Name]
All Pricing Provided:
is on a GST inclusive basis and otherwise include all applicable Australian and overseas taxes, duties, and charges; and
include all costs and expenses necessary and incidental to the proper delivery of the Services.
 Schedule 4 - Service Level Agreement	
Overview
Definitions
In this Service Level Agreement, the following additional definitions apply:
Fee Credit Matrix	the matrix at Item 5 of this Service Level Agreement.
Fee Credit Pool	the maximum amount of Fee Credits that may be claimed by the AEC, calculated as 10 per cent of the total Fees payable for each invoice.
Fee Credit mechanism
In providing the Services, the Service Provider must meet or exceed the Service Levels.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Service Levels apply equally to the Services, and any other Additional Services (as relevant) procured under the Agreement from time to time.
The AEC requires the Service Provider to measure and report on Service Levels as a means of indicating performance and identifying any areas requiring improvement.
The AEC requires that Fee Credits are applied to Service Levels in accordance with the Fee Credit Matrix.
Service Provider responsibilities
The Service Provider's performance of the Services will be monitored by the AEC and, where possible, as identified by the AEC or the Service Provider, improved over the Agreement Period.
It is expected that the Service Provider will monitor and report on its performance with the intent to meet or exceed all Service Levels and actively identifying any areas requiring improvement.
If the Service Provider fails to accurately perform the monitoring, recording and reporting tasks that are necessary for the purpose of calculating the achieved Service Levels and Fee Credits, those Services will be regarded as not having been delivered.
The Service Provider will be required as part of its responsibilities under this Service Level Agreement to:
implement effective tools to measure performance for each Service Level;
monitor and report performance against each Service Level;
allocate the required resources to monitor and measure performance;
demonstrate mitigating circumstances where performance is impacted by events outside the Service Provider's control. Evidence of mitigating circumstances does not automatically provide relief from any consequence resulting from a failure to meet a Service Level. However, evidence of such events will be carefully considered by the AEC during performance reviews; and
submit monthly Service Level Reports to the AEC Contract Manager confirming:
to what extent each of the Service Levels have been met during the previous month and the number and frequency of any failures to meet the Service Levels with a detailed explanation of the failure(s);
what measures the Service Provider has put in place where Service Levels have not been met to ensure that Service Levels are met (or exceeded) in the future; and
the Fee Credits to be applied for the previous month.
All Service Levels must be measured in accordance with the requirements stated for each Service Level in Item 4 of this Service Level Agreement.
The Service Provider is responsible for end to end Incident management of escalated Incidents to its subcontractors and any impact on the Service Levels will be the responsibility of the Service Provider.
Source data
The Service Levels provide an indication of the source data that may be used to calculate and determine the extent to which a Service Level has been met by the Service Provider.
Notwithstanding any item listed as source data, the AEC at all times reserves its right to rely on any creditable data source (including its own records) to determine the extent to which a Service Level has been met by the Service Provider.
Fee Credits
Introduction
The AEC is entitled to Fee Credits where the Service Provider fails to achieve the Service Levels.
The Fee Credits that apply for failure to meet the Service Levels must be applied to the monthly invoice amount (excluding approved expenses).
In addition to compensating the AEC for a lower than agreed level of Service, Fee Credits also act as an incentive for the Service Provider to meet the Service Levels. As such, the Service Levels have two trigger points:
the first trigger point signifies a degraded level of Service, for which a specified part of the Fee Credit may be applied at the AEC's discretion; and
the second trigger point is the "failure point". At this trigger point the entire Service Level has failed and the full Fee Credit (or the residual amount if the AEC already applied a part of the Fee Credit due to degraded Service) may be applied at the AEC's discretion.
Application of Fee Credits
The AEC's primary aim is to use the Fee Credit mechanism as a means to continuously improve the effectiveness of Services provided by the Service Provider. In the application of Fee Credits, emphasis will be placed on bringing performance up to agreed and acceptable levels rather than on achieving a reduction in Fees.
Where the Service Provider fails any Service Level the Service Provider will be required to provide a Service Action Plan (within 5 Business Days of notifying the AEC of the Service Level failure) outlining the steps it is taking or will take to rectify the situation.
Notwithstanding the provision of any acceptable Service Action Plan by the Service Provider, all Fee Credits applicable to those Service Levels may be claimed by the AEC.
Prior to claiming applicable Fee Credits, the AEC will be required to consider any mitigating circumstances relating to the Service Provider's failure to meet the agreed Service Level(s). The quantum of Fee Credits payable may be reduced, at the AEC's discretion, based on the information provided by the Service Provider in relation to the mitigating circumstances. Failure to provide, or inability to secure, adequate resources to meet the Service Level will not be considered a mitigating circumstance.
Fee Credit mechanism
The Fee Credit Pool is allocated across the Service Levels such that the distribution totals 100% of the Fee Credit Pool.
A failure to meet a Service Level's "first trigger" will generate a Fee Credit for that Service Level in accordance with the Fee Credit Matrix.
A failure to meet a Service Level's "second trigger" will generate a Fee Credit equal to the residual amount of the Fee Credit for that Service Level in accordance with the Fee Credit Matrix.
The AEC may claim the full Fee Credit for a Service Level due to failure to meet both the "first trigger" and the "second trigger" without having to issue a separate claim regarding the failure of each "trigger".
A Fee Credit will be discharged by:
crediting the amount on the subsequent monthly invoice (or the next applicable invoice); or
in the event there are no further invoices for that Electoral Event or the invoice amount is less than the applicable Fee Credits, making payment of the applicable amount to the AEC.
Changes to Fee Credit Pool distribution
The AEC reserves the right to adjust the Fee Credit Pool distribution across the Service Levels every three months at the AEC's discretion. The reasons for adjusting the Fee Credit Pool distribution will be limited to:
addition or removal of Service Levels in accordance with Item 3.3 of this Service Level Agreement;
reprioritisation of categories and/or individual Service Level percentages to target the Service Provider's service delivery performance to encourage improved performance; and
mitigating changes in assessed risks in the delivery the Services by the Service Provider.
Any redistribution will not alter the size of the Fee Credit Pool. The AEC will advise the Service Provider in writing, one month before the new distribution will take effect.
Overview of Service Levels
Service Level characteristics
The following table documents the characteristics of the Service Levels required by the AEC and provides a description of each characteristic.
Summary of Service Levels
The following is a summary of the Service Levels:
Each Service Level is described in detail in Item 4 below.
Changes to Service Levels
The AEC may request additional Service Levels, changes or deletions of Service Levels at a minimum, every three months by advising the Service Provider in writing of the changes proposed by the AEC.
Where the AEC requests a new Service Level, the Service Provider will meet with the AEC and agreement will be reached to implement this change.
Where a new Service Level is similar to other Service Levels already in place, the AEC expects that the minimum requirements for the new Service Level will be no lower than the similar Service Levels, unless agreed to by the AEC.
Service Levels
The Service Levels are described as follows.
Fee Credit Matrix
Application of Fee Credits
The Fee Credits for failure to meet the Service Levels will be calculated in accordance with the following table.
Worked examples
Example 1:
The Fee Credit Pool is $1000 and Service Level 1 is Triggered. The Fee Credit the AEC is entitled to is: ($1000 x 40% of the Fee Credit allocation for Service Level1) x 30% (for the first trigger point) = $120
Example 2:
The Fee Credit Pool is $15,000 and Service Level 1 is triggered on the second occasion. The Fee Credit the AEC is entitled to is: ($15,000 x 40% of the Fee Credit Pool a/location for Service Level 1) x 70% (given both the first and second triggers have occurred and the first trigger has already been claimed) = $4,200.
Schedule 5 - Designated Confidential
 Information	
Confidential Information of the AEC (clause 26)
Deed provisions/Schedules
Deed-related Material
Confidential Information of the Service Provider (clause 26)
Deed provisions/Schedules
Deed-related Material
Schedule 6 - Request for Quotation
Schedule 7 - Work Order
SIGNED for and on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Australian Electoral Commission ABN 21 133 285 851 by a duly authorised representative
Name of authorised representative (print)	Name of witness (print)
Signature of authorised representative	Signature of witness
Date	Date
SIGNED by [insert Service Provider name] ABN XX XXX XXX in accordance with section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by
Name of Director (print)	Name of Director/ Company Secretary (print)
Signature of Director	Signature of Director/ Company Secretary
Date	Date
Schedule 8 - Template Deed of Variation for
 Agreements	
 Execution page for Deed of Variation	
EXECUTED as a deed
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED for
and on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Australian Electoral Commission ABN 21 133 285 851 by a duly authorised representative
Name of authorised representative (print)	Name of witness (print)
Signature of authorised representative	Signature of witness
Date	Date
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by
[Insert Service Provider name]
ABN XX XXX XXX in accordance with section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by
Name of Director (print)	Name of Director/Company Secretary (print)
Signature of Director	Signature of Director/Company Secretary
Date	Date
Schedule 9 - Confidentiality, Privacy and
 Conflict of Interest Undertaking - deed poll	
Confidant
	of	 (the Confidant).
Recitals
The Commonwealth of Australia represented by the Australian Electoral Commission ABN 21 133 285 851 (AEC) requires the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment associated services (Services).
[Insert Service Provider name] ABN XX XXX XXX (Service Provider) has agreed to provide the Services to the AEC under a deed of standing offer dated 	_ (Deed).
The Confidant provides the undertakings set out below in respect of work to be performed, and information to be acquired, directly or indirectly in connection with the Services.
Definitions
In this deed:
Confidential Information
Conflict of Interest
Personal Information
Access
means information that is by its nature confidential and is:
identified as confidential; or
information of the AEC and the Confidant knows or ought to know that information is confidential,
but does not include information that is or becomes public knowledge other than by breach of this deed or any other confidentiality obligation.
means any circumstance in which:
the Confidant has an interest (whether financial or non-financial) or an affiliation that is affecting, will affect, or could be perceived to affect, the Confidant's ability to perform the Services or work associated with the Services fairly and independently; or
due to a direct or indirect relationship or interest the Confidant may be seen to compromise the political neutrality of the AEC.
has the meaning given in section 6 of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth).
The Confidant understands that in the course of performing the Services, the Confidant may have access to Personal Information and Confidential Information.
Non-disclosure
The Confidant will treat as secret and confidential all Personal Information and Confidential Information to which it has access or which is disclosed to the Confidant.
If the AEC grants its consent for the Confidant to disclose Personal Information or Confidential Information, it may impose conditions on that consent. In particular, the AEC may require that the Confidant obtains the execution of a deed in these terms by the person to whom the Confidant proposes to disclose the Personal Information or Confidential Information.
The Confidant's obligations under this deed will not be taken to have been breached where the Confidant is legally required to disclose the Personal Information or Confidential Information.
Restriction on use
The Confidant will use the Personal Information or Confidential Information only for the purpose of its dealings with the AEC (whether directly or indirectly).
The Confidant will not copy, reproduce or disclose the Personal Information or Confidential Information without the approval of the AEC, will not allow any other person outside the AEC access to the Personal Information or Confidential Information, except to senior managers of the Service Provider who have a need to know basis for such information and, for security classified information, have the appropriate security clearance and will take all necessary precautions to prevent unauthorised access to or copying or disclosure of the Personal Information or Confidential Information in its control.
The Confidant will ensure that anybody to whom it provides or discloses the Personal Information or Confidential Information is made aware of the conditions under which this information is provided or disclosed, and of the fact that the confidentiality/secrecy of the information must be maintained.
Where the Confidant is an individual it will undergo all relevant security clearance vetting processes where it has, or will be given, access to security classified information for more than three months.
Delivery up of documents
Immediately on request by the AEC, the Confidant must deliver to the AEC all documents in its possession or control containing Personal Information or Confidential Information.
If at the time of such a request the Confidant is aware that documents containing Personal Information or Confidential Information are beyond its possession or control, then the Confidant must provide full details of where the documents containing the Personal Information or Confidential Information are, and the identity of the person who has control of them.
6.	Privacy obligations
The Confidant agrees to abide by the provisions of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), including the Australian Privacy Principles set out in that Act, in respect of both Personal Information and Confidential Information, whether or not it is legally bound to comply with that Act and as if the definition of personal information in that Act includes Confidential Information.
Conflict of Interest
The Confidant warrants, to the best of its knowledge, as at the date of this deed, that no Conflict of Interest exists or is likely to arise in its performance of the work associated with the Services except in relation to the following:
Insert details of any Conflict of Interest or otherwise insert 'Not applicable'. Attach additional pages if needed.
If a Conflict of Interest arises during the course of its work associated with the Services, or appears likely to arise, the Confidant acknowledges that it must:
immediately notify the AEC in writing of the Conflict of Interest making a full disclosure of all relevant information relating to the Conflict of Interest and setting out the steps it proposes to take to resolve or otherwise deal with the Conflict of Interest; and
take such steps as the AEC may reasonably require to resolve or otherwise deal with that Conflict of Interest.
Intellectual Property Rights and Moral Rights
The Confidant:
acknowledges that any Agreement Material created under the Deed by the Confidant is created at the direction or under the control of the AEC; and
hereby:
assigns to the AEC, and, if the Confidant is an organisation or corporate legal entity must ensure its employees or agents assign to the AEC, any Intellectual Property Rights that the Confidant may have in the Agreement Material in accordance with the requirements of the Deed; and
in relation to any Moral Rights that the Confidant may have in relation to the Agreement Material, to the extent permitted by Law, consents and, if the Confidant is an organisation or corporate legal entity must ensure its employees or agents (if any) consent, to the Specified Acts.
In this clause, Agreement Material, Intellectual Property Rights, Moral Rights and Specified Acts have the same meaning as they have in the Deed.
Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth)
The Confidant acknowledges the provisions of Part 10.7 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) which provides for a range of penalties, including imprisonment for an offence against those provisions.
The Confidant acknowledges that:
section 121.1(1) of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) states that the term "Commonwealth officer" includes:
an individual who is a contracted service provider for a Commonwealth contract; and
an individual who is an officer or employee of a contracted service provider for a Commonwealth contract and who provides services for the purposes (whether direct or indirect) of the Commonwealth contract
it is an offence under Part 5.6 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) to communicate or otherwise deal with various types of information obtained by reason of being, or having been, a Commonwealth officer or otherwise engaged to perform work for a Commonwealth entity; and
it is an offence under Division 137 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) to knowingly give false and misleading information (in a material particular) to the Commonwealth or its officers or agents.
Indemnity
Where the Confidant is an organisation or corporate legal entity, the Confidant indemnifies the AEC against any claim made against, or loss incurred by, the AEC which is caused or contributed to by the Confidant's failure to comply with this deed.
Survival
This deed will survive the termination or expiry of any contract between the AEC and the Confidant.
Applicable law
This deed will be governed by, and construed in all respects in accordance with, the law of the Australian Capital Territory and I agree to submit to the applicable jurisdiction of the Courts of that Territory in respect of all matters arising under, or in relation to, this deed.
 Execution of deed poll	
EXECUTED as a deed poll
[For an individual]
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by	in the presence of
Name of Confidant	Name of witness
Signature of Confidant	Signature of witness (print)
Date
[For a company with multiple directors]
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by[insert name of Service Provider] 
ABN XX XXX XXX in accordance with section 127 of the
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by Name of Director (print)
Date
Name of Director/Company Secretary (print)
Signature of Director	Signature of Director/Company Secretary
Date	Date
Schedule 10 - Risk Management Plan
Draft Risk Management Plan as per commencement of this Deed is as follows.
 Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page 90
 Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page 91
Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page  92
I
 Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page 93
 Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page 94
 Schedule 11 - Agency Nomination Form
Recitals
The Service Provider has offered under clause 7 of the Deed specified at Item 1 below to provide the Services to Nominated Agencies. 
The Nominated Agency specified in Item 3 below accepts this offer on the terms and conditions set out in the Deed and in this Agency Nomination Form. 
Operative provisions
Effect of the form
This Agency Nomination Form has effect as a deed between the Service Provider and the Nominated Agency named in item 3 of Table 1 when the last party executes the deed	.
Interpretation
If there is any inconsistency between this Agency Nomination Form and any other provision of the Deed, the terms and conditions in this Agency Nomination Form will prevail to the extent of any inconsistency.
 Agency Nomination Details
If there are no variations mark item 7 as ‘Not used’ and omit the following.
[Variation 1]
[insert details of how the text in the Agreement is varied. For example, delete clause X and replace with “XXX”]
Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events                                         Page 96
Execution pages of the Agency Nomination Form
EXECUTED as a deed
Note to drafter: your legal area if the Service Provider is not a company registered in Australia, so that an alternative execution block may be provided.
 Execution page	
Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events		page 98
Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events		page 99



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Statement of Requirements - SRC006427.docx
============================================================

Schedule 1 - Statement of Requirements	
Overview
Purpose
The role of the AEC is to deliver an Australian citizen's right to vote, as established and defined by the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 (CEA).
The AEC is responsible for conducting Electoral Events and maintaining the Commonwealth electoral roll. The AEC also provides a range of electoral information and education programs and activities. These activities take place at various venues and locations across Australia.
During an Electoral Event, high volumes of furniture and equipment are hired and purchased by the AEC for use by each Division and State office. Only limited notice of an Electoral Event can be provided to the Service Provider.
In this context, the purpose of this Statement of Requirements (SoR) is to state the AEC’s requirements for Services in support of Electoral Events and invite potential suppliers to provide a solution that meets part or all of AEC’s requirements. 
About the AEC
The AEC has a three-tier office network structure comprising:
a National Office in Canberra;
6 state and two territory offices; and
currently 150 divisions located at approximately 85 locations around Australia.
	Additionally, for the conduct of an Electoral Event the AEC operates:
approximately 65 Out-Posted Centres predominantly in industrial buildings and warehouses; 
approximately 7,500 Polling Places at venues such as local schools and local halls, etc.
Further information about the AEC can be found on its website: http://www.aec.gov.au.
Definitions
In this SoR, the following additional definitions are used:
Services
Description of the Services
The AEC is seeking suitable Service Providers to provide the following Services:
Hire of furniture (e.g. tables, chairs) and/or office (e.g. water dispensers, urns, mats, lockers, etc.) and warehouse operational (e.g. pallet jacks, shelving, fencing, etc. – note, warehouse equipment exclusively at Out-Posted Centres) equipment (see Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT for further details); comprising:
delivery and collection of furniture and equipment;
unpacking/repacking and assembling furniture and equipment;
removal and disposal of packaging material;
meeting the AEC’s timeframes for Services;
dedicated account managers for critical stages within an Election Period; 
reporting on the Services; and
invoicing for the Services.
For noting: while ideally, the AEC would value Service Providers who can provide all the requirements noted in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT (i.e. all types of furniture and equipment, to all types of operation (OPCs and polling places) to all locations) the AEC understands that this may not reflect the business model of all Tenderers. 
As such, while it would value comprehensive offers (covering all operations, requirements and areas) the AEC still wishes to evaluate offers based on the industry specialisation and unique offerings reflected in the Tenderer’s submission. For example: furniture only offers, warehouse equipment only offers, purchase/l-buyback options, etc. 
The Pricing Schedules in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT reflect indicative usage totals for a future Event, while considering information from the most recent Event (Federal Election 2025), including:
a list of AEC locations and their demographic classifications
quantities
periods of hire.
Further indicative delivery graphics and profile information for statics can be found in Schedule 3 Annexure O of the RFT.
Delivery and collection of furniture and equipment to and from nominated venues and locations will generally be for fixed durations for all the required equipment. The delivery and duration requirement for some materials, however, will be staggered at OPCs (and possibly for other locations) depending on the needs for those locations (as an example, see ‘electoral furniture’ categories in the ‘Out-posted Centre’ tab of the spreadsheet template as part of Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT).
The AEC wishes to work with the successful Service Providers to develop efficient delivery patterns for furniture and equipment. This is also critical to assisting the AEC understand and plan for transport charges. Tenderers should factor time to work with AEC staff in each state to plan deliveries (e.g. milk runs) in the planning period directly prior to the election being called. 
Dedicated account manager(s) should have an appropriate level of seniority in the Service Provider’s organisation who is readily contactable and is experienced in performing a client relationship management role. They would be the primary point of contact for: 
managing the Services at a holistic level;
coordinating requests, Services and invoicing arrangements at the national level, where appropriate; and
addressing (and escalating where required) all correspondence, queries, complaints and concerns of the AEC Representative in a prompt and responsive manner.
The dedicated account manager must be available to:
liaise with the AEC Representative during Business Hours, after Business Hours, and on weekends during an Election Period; and
respond promptly to all AEC enquiries and requests.
An alternative contact person of equivalent seniority (or higher) must also be nominated by the Service Provider in the event that the dedicated account manager is not contactable.
On collection of furniture and equipment, the Service Provider must immediately notify the AEC if any AEC Material or Sensitive Election Material is found in the hired furniture or equipment. The AEC Material or Sensitive Election Material must be held securely by the Service Provider, until the AEC arranges for the collection of its material within 5 business days.
The Service Provider is expected to provide the Services in accordance with the AEC’s timeframes, specified in Table 1 below, noting the AEC will engage the Service Provider during planning stages in the lead up to a General Election to discuss this further. Final delivery timeframes will be confirmed prior to the requirement by the AEC in writing in a Work Order.
Table 1: AEC Delivery Timeframes for a General Election
Table 2 below provides an indicative schedule of the Services required from the Service Provider for the collection of hired furniture and equipment from Static Polling Places and PPVCs for a General Election.
Table 2: AEC Collection Timeframes for a General Election
The AEC may request the following Additional Services:
storage of furniture and equipment owned by the AEC; and
delivery, collection and/or transport of furniture and equipment and incidental goods and services.
The AEC may purchase Goods from the Service Provider at the prices set out in the relevant Schedule to the Agreement. A separate work order under the terms and conditions set out in the Commonwealth Contracting Suite will be established should the AEC choose to purchase any Goods. The terms and conditions for the Commonwealth Contracting Suite is at https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonwealth-contracting-suite-ccs#ccs-terms. 
Additionally, the AEC wishes to consider options that involve the purchase of Goods from and sale-back to the Service Provider. The AEC asks Tenderers to use their industry expertise to develop options and provide pricing that allow the AEC to purchase the furniture and equipment and either retain that furniture and equipment, or, if there is no further ongoing requirement on the part of the AEC, for the Service Provider to arrange the pick-up and return of those items for a pre-agreed price. 
Should the Tenderer wish to tender for this element, the relevant pricing schedule should be added to Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT. Pricing should include the purchase price, delivery (transport and handling) pricing, sell-back pricing and pick up (transport and handling) pricing and any surcharges based on the range of furniture and equipment noted in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT.
Reporting
When delivering/collecting furniture and equipment, Service Providers must:
provide reports in a format, layout and style acceptable to the AEC. 
provide daily reports during peak service periods. The content of these reports will include an itemised list of completed deliveries/collections of furniture equipment to the AEC Representative on a daily basis (via email) before 6:00pm local time;
notify the AEC Representative immediately of any variation to the delivery or collection schedules whether due to circumstances within its control or otherwise;
ensure it has sufficient transport capacity and resources to ensure optimal trip and capacity planning to ensure the minimum number of trips are made, including working with the nominated AEC representative to agree delivery and pick up timeframes prior to execution;
ensure that the AEC Representative is contacted prior to the delivery or collection of the furniture and equipment where it is anticipated that additional charges (including any surcharges, as noted in the pricing schedule) may apply, for example as a result of additional trips or weight.
Invoicing
Invoices must meet the requirements of a tax invoice as set out in the GST Act and contain the following information:
the details of the Services e.g. quantities/descriptions/locations/dates/times of the furniture delivered;
contract number;
period covered by invoice;
title and description of the Services;
the amount of any Fee Credits applicable during the invoice period; 
surcharges (including details of those surcharges e.g. justification, location, dates, times) and
any other information reasonably requested by the AEC from time to time.
Service Levels
The AEC requires the Service Provider to meet or exceed agreed Service Levels as detailed in Table 3 with final measurement levels for Service Levels to be included in the proposed agreement.
Table 3 – Draft Service Levels
Note to Tenderers: The AEC will work with the Service Provider to develop a Service Level Agreement (SLA) based on the service levels above. The SLA will involve the application of fee credits should the Service Provider fail to meet the service levels. It is expected that the Service Provider will monitor and report on its performance with the intent to meet or exceed all service levels and actively identify any areas requiring improvement.
For further guidance on the AEC’s current thoughts on developing the Service Level Agreement, please see the Annexure A – Service Level Scenario.
 Annexure A -  Service Level Scenario	
Background
The key constraint to achieving optimal outcomes for furniture and equipment hire concerns uncertainty around the timing of an Electoral Event i.e. the AEC cannot give clear notice of when the next General Election will be held. At this stage, the best information that can be provided to Service Providers on timing is that:
the earliest the next General Election can be called is 7 August 2027; and
the latest time that the next General Election can be called is 20 May 2028.
AEC will also provide guidance on subsequent Electoral Events including General Elections when known.
The Services will primarily be provided in support of three categories of venues with different levels of uncertainty surrounding their requirements:
Out-Posted Centres (OPCs): typically, premises for an OPC are leased for a longer period (e.g. 1 to 3 months) than PPVCs or Static Polling Places. As ballot papers are counted at an OPC they must be secure. There is higher certainty around the furniture/equipment requirements for an OPC.
 Pre-Poll Voting Centre (PPVC): a polling place where an elector casts a vote before Polling Day. Typically leases for PPVCs are approximately 1 month. Premises leased are mostly community centres, schools and churches. Certainty around the furniture/equipment requirements for a PPVC is low but considered better than that for Static Polling Places noting that some PPVC locations will not be finalised until after the General Election announcement has been made.
Static Polling Places: polling places set up in each Division to take the votes of electors for an Election Event i.e. the venue where voters will turn up on Polling Day. Premises for Static Polling Places are often local schools and churches. Leases for Static Polling Places are very short meaning timeframes for delivery and collection of furniture will be limited (e.g. 1-2 days). Static Polling Places have the lowest level of certainty around their furniture/equipment requirements.
Managing uncertainty
It is estimated that the AEC's requirements for approximately 80% of its furniture and equipment needs will be related to OPCs. Noting this, the AEC proposes to manage this uncertainty related to its OPC requirements by:
Engaging closely with Service Providers during planning stages. For example once leases for OPCs are finalised, the Service Provider will be provided the relevant details to help with the delivery/collection schedule; and
Work Orders for OPCs should be established relatively early in the lead up to a General Election i.e. several months prior to a General Election.
The AEC's furniture and equipment requirements for Pre-Poll Voting Centres and Static Polling Places are far more 'fluid' and cannot be fixed until after the announcement has been made. Noting that timeliness for delivery of furniture and equipment is critical, the AEC proposes to manage this uncertainty by:
Providing Service Providers maximum/minimum ranges for its furniture and equipment requirements;
Establishing Work Orders on a Not-To-Exceed basis and drawing down on their value as requirements become fixed;
Selecting Service Providers that will proactively engage with the AEC to actively manage uncertainty and risk.
Service level agreement
As Polling Day draws closer, Service Providers may be unable to meet the AEC's requirements if they have been given insufficient time and the AEC's options to approach alternative suppliers will be restricted.
To reduce the likelihood of this scenario and to better align the interests of the AEC and the Service Provider, a Service Level Agreement is at Schedule 4 of this Deed.
For the purposes of developing an effective Service Level Agreement an example of an optimal outcome for Static Polling Places in a Division is provided below.
Example of Optimal Outcome for Static Polling Places in a Division
An Election Event is announced and the Service Provider is notified. Within 7 days, most of the orders confirming the AEC's requirements are confirmed for each location within the Division. However, some orders can only be provided closer to Polling Day.
Service Providers coordinate the necessary furniture and equipment in line with AEC requirements.
Furniture and equipment is delivered to Static Polling Places with all deliveries being finalised by 8pm on the Friday before Polling Day (Saturday).
At delivery, the Service Provider unpacks the furniture, assembles the furniture, moves it to the approximate vicinity of the desired place within the Static Polling Place and then removes all packaging material.
Furniture and equipment is marked/labelled as belonging to the Service Provider.
The Service Provider obtains approval/signature from the nominated AEC representative at the site that the furniture/equipment has been delivered.
By 6pm on each day during the 2 weeks leading up to Polling Day, the Service Provider emails the relevant AEC representative of all furniture and equipment that has been delivered (Delivery Report). However, on the Friday before Polling Day, 2 Delivery Reports are provided: one at 1pm and one at 9pm.
The day following Polling Day (Sunday), collection of equipment commences at venues where this is possible - some venues may be unable to facilitate collection on Sundays. Photos are taken of any damaged furniture or equipment.
All furniture/equipment has been collected by the second day following Polling Day (Monday).
By 6pm on each collection day, the Service Provider emails the relevant AEC representative of all furniture and equipment that has been collected which includes details of any missing furniture/equipment as well as photos of damaged equipment (Collection Report).
In the following weeks, an invoice is then sent by the Service Provider to the AEC detailing all furniture and equipment that has been delivered and collected from the relevant sites. The details in this invoice can be clearly
Some potential factors leading to sub-optimal outcomes in this example are provided below:
The Service Provider is unable to meet the AEC's requirements for furniture and equipment in terms of quality and quantity leading to the AEC approaching other suppliers;
Faulty furniture or equipment is reported to the Service Provider but action taken to replace the faulty equipment is delayed;
Furniture and equipment is not marked accurately which leads to confusion during collection and preparing Collection Reports;
Invoices provide insufficient detail and do not reconcile with Collection Reports or Delivery Reports, including surcharges and levies.



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Addendum 1 - SRC006427.docx
============================================================

ADDENDUM
Background:
This addendum addresses questions submitted from potential Tenderers.
Details:



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Request for Tender - SRC006427.docx
============================================================

Contents
1.	RFT details	5
2.	Overview	6
2.1	Introduction	6
2.2	About the AEC	6
2.3	Definitions and interpretation	7
2.4	Objectives and expected outcomes	10
2.5	Indicative timetable	10
2.6	Intention to respond	10
2.7	Public Interest Certificate	10
3.	Communications	10
3.1	AusTender, the Australian Government Tender System	10
3.2	Communications with the AEC	11
3.3	Clarifications, addenda and other notices	11
3.4	Responsibility of Tenderers	11
4.	Requirements of Tenders	12
4.1	Conditions for Participation	12
4.2	Minimum Content and Format Requirements	12
4.3	Format of Tender	12
4.4	Executive summary	12
4.5	Consents for security, probity and financial checks	12
4.6	Contracting with a single legal entity	13
4.7	Alternative Tenders	13
5.	Lodgement process	13
5.1	RFT Closing Time	13
5.2	Lodgement through AusTender	13
5.3	Preparing to lodge a Tender	13
5.4	Electronic lodgement process	14
5.5	Late Tenders, incomplete Tenders and corrupted files	14
5.6	Proof of electronic lodgement	14
5.7	AusTender security	15
5.8	Corrections and additions	15
5.9	Unintentional errors of form	15
5.10	Clarification of Tenders by the AEC	15
6.	Evaluation	16
6.1	Overview	16
6.2	Evaluation Criteria	16
6.3	Evaluation approach	17
6.4	Stage 1 – Initial screening	17
6.5	Stage 2 – Assessment against the Scored Evaluation Criteria	18
6.6	Stage 3 – Assessment of Best Value for Money Overall	18
7.	Negotiation	19
7.1	Negotiation process	19
7.2	Conduct of negotiations	19
8.	Notification of outcome and debriefing	19
9.	Other terms and conditions	19
9.1	Ownership of Tender documents	19
9.2	Ownership of Intellectual Property Rights in RFT and Tender	20
9.3	Tender Validity Period	20
9.4	Political neutrality and Conflict of Interest	20
9.5	Tenderer conduct	21
9.6	Due diligence	21
9.7	Return of Information	21
9.8	Confidentiality of Tenderer information	22
9.9	Change affecting Tenderer	22
9.10	Publicity	23
9.11	No contract or undertaking	23
9.12	AEC's rights	23
9.13	Tenderer's acknowledgment	25
9.14	Responsibility for Tender costs	26
9.15	Applicable law	26
9.16	Complaints	26
10.	Applicable laws and policies	27
10.1	Commonwealth procurement	27
10.2	Coordinated procurement	27
10.3	Indigenous Procurement Policy	28
10.4	Access and disclosure regimes	28
10.5	Workplace Gender Equality	29
10.6	Environmental policy and procurement	29
10.7	Employee entitlements	30
10.8	Illegal workers	30
10.9	Lobbying Code of Conduct	30
10.10	Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct	30
Schedule 1 - Statement of Requirements	31
Schedule 2 - Draft Deed of Standing Offer	32
Schedule 3 - Tender Form	33
Annexure A – Contact details	34
Annexure B – Tenderer’s Declaration (Deed Poll)	35
1.	Authority	35
2.	Definitions and interpretation	35
3.	The offer and change of circumstances	36
4.	Tenderer's conduct	36
5.	Costs	37
6.	Political neutrality and Conflict of Interest	37
7.	Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth)	37
8.	Lobbying Code of Conduct	38
9.	Supplier Code of Conduct	38
10.	Employee entitlements	38
11.	Black economy procurement connected policy	38
12.	Laws	38
13.	Security, probity and financial checks	38
14.	Acknowledgement and agreement	39
15.	Governing law	39
Annexure C – Executive summary	40
Annexure D – Pricing Schedule	41
Annexure E – Financial and commercial capacity	42
Annexure F – Compliance Statement	45
Annexure G – Understanding of and approach to the Services	47
Annexure H – Track record	49
Annexure I – Management of Changed Requirements at Short Notice	50
Annexure J - Experience and qualifications of Specified Personnel	51
Annexure K – Value Added Services	52
Annexure L – Tenderer Confidential Information	53
Annexure M – Conflict of Interest	54
Annexure N – Risk Management Plan	55
Annexure O – Indicative Delivery Timings	57
Request for Tender – Terms and Conditions	
RFT details
Overview
Introduction
The Commonwealth of Australia represented by the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) invites Tenders to respond to this Request for Tender (RFT) for the Services.
Detailed information on the AEC's requirements for the Services is contained at Schedule 1 to this RFT (Statement of Requirements).  
Tenderers should refer to clause 2.3 when reading this RFT for guidance on defined terms and how clauses are to be interpreted. 
Tenders should be in the form set out in Schedule 3, including all of its Annexures.
Tenders should be submitted in accordance with clause 5 of this RFT. The AEC will exclude from the evaluation process a Tender that does not satisfy each of the Mandatory Requirements.  
Tenders will be assessed against the Evaluation Criteria.
About the AEC
The AEC is a Commonwealth agency responsible for conducting federal Electoral Events and maintaining the Commonwealth electoral roll. The AEC is also responsible for undertaking electoral research, promoting community awareness of electoral and Parliamentary matters, and assisting in the conduct of approved international elections and industrial election events.
The AEC's website is at http://www.aec.gov.au.  AEC offices are organised geographically, with a National Office in Canberra, seven state and territory offices and Divisional Offices in or near each of the electoral Divisions.
Definitions and interpretation
Unless the context dictates otherwise:
terms defined in the Deed of Standing Offer or the Statement of Requirements have the same meaning in this RFT; and
the interpretation clause of the Deed of Standing Offer applies to the interpretation of this RFT.
All other capitalised terms are defined as follows for the purposes of this RFT. To the extent of any inconsistency, terms defined below will prevail over those in the Deed of Standing Offer or Statement of Requirements.
If there is any inconsistency between any provisions of this RFT the following provisions will prevail in descending order, to the extent of the inconsistency:
these Request for Tender – Terms and Conditions (clauses 1 to 10);
Schedule 2 – Draft Deed of Standing Offer;
Schedule 1 – Statement of Requirements; and
Schedule 3 – Tender Form.
Objectives and expected outcomes
The AEC expects to identify Service Providers to deliver the Services on a best value for money overall basis. 
The AEC intends to set up a panel of Service Providers, all of whom are engaged under a Deed of Standing Offer. Further information on panel arrangements is available on the Department of Finance website.
The proposed Initial Deed Period of the Deed of Standing Offer is set out in Item 7, with the Deed Option Period specified in Item 7 (if any), exercisable at the AEC’s discretion. 
Partial Tenders will only be accepted if specified in Item 8.
Indicative timetable
The proposed timetable for the release of this RFT and submission of Tenders is set out in Items 2 and 3. 
Details of any industry briefing are set out in Item 11.
The proposed timetable for the Tender evaluation process is set out in Item 9. This proposed timetable is provided for convenience only and does not identify all activities relating to this RFT process or the evaluation of Tenders. The AEC may change the proposed timetable at its absolute discretion without notification to Tenderers.
Intention to respond
Tenderers should notify the Contact Officer using the Contact Address whether they intend to response or decline to respond to this RFT within 10 Business Days of the RFT Release Date.
The notification under clause 2.6(a) is for the AEC’s information purposes only.
Failure to provide the notification under clause 2.6(a) will not preclude a Tenderer from submitting a Tender in response to this RFT.
Public Interest Certificate
A Public Interest Certificate (PIC) has not, as at the date of release of this RFT, been issued for this procurement. 
The AEC may issue a PIC at any time during the procurement process, in accordance with the requirements of the Government Procurement (Judicial Review) Act 2018 (Cth), in which case, all potential suppliers will be notified via AusTender.
Communications
AusTender, the Australian Government Tender System
AusTender is the Australian Government’s procurement information system. Access to and use of AusTender is subject to terms and conditions. In participating in this procurement process, Tenderers must comply with those terms and conditions and any applicable instructions, processes, procedures and recommendations as advised on AusTender at: https://www.tenders.gov.au/?event=public.termsOfUse.
All queries and requests for technical or operational support relating to AusTender must be directed to:
AusTender Help Desk
Telephone:  1300 651 698
International:  +61 2 6215 1558
Email:  tenders@finance.gov.au
The AusTender Help Desk is available between 9am and 5pm ACT local time, Monday to Friday (excluding ACT and national public holidays).
Communications with the AEC
All enquiries for information or notices by a Tenderer to the AEC in connection with this RFT must be: 
in writing; 
addressed to the Contact Officer; and
sent by e-mail to the Contact Address before the Enquiry Deadline.
Tenderers may seek clarification of the meaning of the content of this RFT from the Contact Officer in accordance with clause 3.2(a).  
Tenderers should immediately notify the Contact Officer in writing if they reasonably believe there is any discrepancy, error, ambiguity, inconsistency or omission in this RFT so that the AEC may take whatever corrective action, if any, it deems appropriate.  Any actual discrepancy, error, ambiguity, inconsistency, or omission in this RFT or any other Information so identified will be corrected (or the proper information issued) and will be made available to all Tenderers (without attribution to the identifying Tenderer).
Clarifications, addenda and other notices
The AEC may deliver any written notification or response to a Tenderer:
by issuing a notice using the same method as for the issue of this RFT; or 
by sending it to, or causing it to be left at, the Tenderer's address as specified in its Tender. Such notification will be deemed to be delivered in accordance with the notice clause of the Deed of Standing Offer.
In all cases the AEC reserves the right to:
forward the question and details of any AEC response to all Tenderers on a non-attributable basis; and
not respond to queries, comments or questions and does not intend to respond to enquiries received after the Enquiry Deadline.
Where the AEC issues an addendum to this RFT prior to the RFT Closing Time, it will communicate the addendum to all Tenderers via AusTender.
Responsibility of Tenderers
Tenderers who have registered and downloaded the RFT documentation will be notified by AusTender via email of the issue of any addenda, clarifications or other notices in respect of the RFT documentation. It is in the interests of Tenderers to ensure they have correctly recorded their contact details prior to downloading RFT documentation. If Tenderers have not recorded their details correctly, they should amend their details and download the RFT documentation again.
Tenderers are required to login to AusTender and collect addenda, clarifications and other notices as notified.
The AEC will accept no responsibility if a Tenderer fails to become aware of any addendum notice which would have been apparent from a visit to the AusTender page for this RFT.
If a Tenderer has obtained RFT documentation other than from AusTender, they will need to visit AusTender, register as a user and download the RFT documentation for this RFT.
Requirements of Tenders
Conditions for Participation
Subject to clauses 5.5 and 5.9(a), the AEC will exclude a Tender from further consideration if the Tenderer does not meet the following Conditions for Participation:
Minimum Content and Format Requirements
Subject to clause 5.9(a), the AEC will exclude a Tender from further consideration if the AEC considers that the Tender does not comply with any of the requirements set out below.
While not a minimum content requirement, the Tender should include all materials for consideration as annexures, attachments or otherwise within the submission documentation, no hyperlinked materials should be referenced for evaluation and may not be considered for evaluation purposes if included.
Format of Tender
Tenderers should submit a completed Tender Form. Tenderers should complete all of the Annexures to Schedule 3 and attach them to their Tender Form.  
Tenderers should ensure that their Tender contains all information requested in this RFT.  
Executive summary
Tenderers should provide a summary of their Tender in Annexure C to Schedule 3.
Tenderers should note that this executive summary may be used for high-level briefing of key stakeholders, for example, the Minister(s) and the Parliamentary Secretary, the Department of Finance, and Parliamentary Committees and should not contain any information which the Tenderer would not wish to have made available in the public domain. 
Consents for security, probity and financial checks
The AEC may perform such security, probity and financial checks and procedures as the AEC, at its absolute discretion, may determine are necessary in relation to:
a Tenderer, its officers, employees, partners, associates and subcontractors; and
Related Bodies Corporate of the Tenderer and its subcontractors and their officers, employees and subcontractors.
A Tender may be excluded from consideration by the AEC if the Tenderer does not provide, at its own cost, all reasonable assistance to the AEC in this regard. 
Contracting with a single legal entity 
The AEC intends that any Deed of Standing Offer that is awarded will be between the AEC and a single legal entity (as opposed to a group of entities or a consortium), with that single legal entity being responsible for the performance of all of the Service Provider’s obligations contained in the Deed of Standing Offer.
Where the Tenderer proposes to leverage off multiple entities to provide the Services, those entities must be subcontractors to the single legal entity who contracts with the AEC.
The AEC may exclude a Tender from the evaluation process if the Tenderer does not propose to contract with the AEC using a single legal entity that exists at the RFT Closing Time. 
Alternative Tenders
This clause 4.7 applies where Item 9 indicates that alternative Tenders will be accepted for the purposes of this RFT.
A Tenderer must submit a Tender that complies with the requirements of this RFT. However the Tenderer may also submit an alternative Tender which does not comply with the requirements of this RFT provided that a compliant Tender is also submitted. 
If a Tenderer submits an alternative Tender, they should clearly identify it as an alternative Tender and clearly state the advantages, disadvantages, limitations and capabilities of the alternative Tender.
Lodgement process
RFT Closing Time 
Tenders must be lodged before the RFT Closing Time.
Lodgement through AusTender
Tenders must be lodged electronically via AusTender before the RFT Closing Time and in accordance with the Tender lodgement procedures set out in this RFT and on AusTender.
Tenders lodged by any other means (including physically or by email) will not be accepted.
Preparing to lodge a Tender 
	Tender file formats, naming conventions and sizes
The AEC will accept Tenders lodged in Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel and/or PDF format.
The Tender file name(s):
should incorporate the Tenderer’s legal entity name; and
should reflect the various parts of the bid they represent, where the Tender comprises multiple files.        
Tender files must not exceed a combined file size of seven megabytes per upload. 
Tenders must be completely self-contained. No hyperlinked or other material may be incorporated by reference. 
Checking for Harmful Code
In submitting their Tenders electronically, Tenderers warrant that they have taken reasonable steps to ensure that Tender files are free of Harmful Code which may affect AusTender and/or the AEC’s ICT environment. Tenders found to contain Harmful Code may be excluded from consideration.
Electronic lodgement process
Tenderers must allow sufficient time for Tender lodgement, including time that may be required for any problem analysis and resolution prior to the RFT Closing Time.
Tenderers should be aware that holding the “Lodge a Response” page in the web browser will not hold the electronic tender box open beyond the RFT Closing Time. An error message will be issued if the lodgement process is attempted after the RFT Closing Time.
Tenders lodged through AusTender will be deemed to be authorised by the Tenderer.
If Tenderers have any problem in accessing the AusTender website or uploading a Tender they should contact the AusTender Help Desk prior to the RFT Closing Time. Failure to do so may result in the Tender being excluded from consideration.
Late Tenders, incomplete Tenders and corrupted files
Any attempt to lodge a Tender after the RFT Closing Time will not be permitted by AusTender. Such a Tender will be deemed a Late Tender. Late Tenders will be excluded from consideration unless the Tender is a Late Tender as a consequence of mishandling by the AEC.
The countdown clock displayed on AusTender will display in real time the amount of time left until the RFT Closing Time. The time displayed on the countdown clock is deemed the correct amount of time left until the RFT Closing Time and will be the means by which the AEC will determine whether a Tender has been lodged by the RFT Closing Time.
Where electronic submission of a Tender has commenced prior to the RFT Closing Time but concluded after the RFT Closing Time, and upload of the Tender file/s has completed successfully, as confirmed by AusTender system logs, the Tender will not be deemed to be a Late Tender. Such Tenders will be identified by AusTender to the AEC as having commenced transmission prior to, but completed lodgement after, the RFT Closing Time.
Where a Tender lodgement consists of multiple uploads, due to the number and/or size of the files, Tenderers must ensure that transmission of all files is completed and receipted before the RFT Closing Time and clause 5.5(c) will only apply to the final upload.
Incomplete Tenders may be excluded from consideration. This includes Tenders with electronic files that cannot be read or decrypted.
If the AEC believes a Tender to potentially contain any Harmful Code or anything else that might compromise the integrity or security of AusTender and/or the AEC’s ICT environment, it may also be excluded from consideration.
Proof of electronic lodgement
When a Tender lodgement has successfully completed, an official receipt is provided on-screen. The on-screen receipt will record the time and date the Tender was received by AusTender and will be conclusive evidence of successful lodgement of a Tender. It is essential that Tenderers save and print this receipt as proof of lodgement. A separate email confirming receipt of the Tender will also be automatically dispatched to the email address of the registered user whose details were recorded at login.
Failure to receive a receipt means that lodgement has not completed successfully. Where no receipt has been issued by AusTender, the attempted lodgement will be deemed to have been unsuccessful. Tenderers should refer to clauses 5.4(a) and 5.4(d). 
AusTender security
Tenderers acknowledge that although the Commonwealth has implemented the security measures described on AusTender, the Commonwealth does not warrant that unauthorised access to information and data transmitted via the internet will not occur.
Tenderers acknowledge that:
lodgement of their Tender on time and in accordance with this RFT is entirely their responsibility; and
the AEC will not be liable for any loss, damage, costs or expenses incurred by Tenderers or any other person if, for any reason, a Tender or any other material or communication relevant to this RFT is not received on time, is corrupted or altered or otherwise is not received as sent, cannot be read or decrypted, or has its security or integrity compromised.
It is the responsibility of the Tenderers to ensure that their infrastructure including operating system and browser revision levels meet the minimum standards as defined on AusTender. Neither the AEC nor the Commonwealth take any responsibility for any problems arising from Tenderers’ infrastructure and/or internet connectivity.
Corrections and additions
Tenders containing pricing or other information that is not stated clearly and legibly may be excluded from consideration.
If a Tenderer becomes aware of any discrepancy, error, ambiguity, inconsistency or omission in its Tender prior to the RFT Closing Time and the Tenderer wishes to lodge a correction, that material must be in writing and lodged in accordance with clause 5.2(a).
Subject to clauses 9.4 and 9.9, if correcting information is delivered after the RFT Closing Time, the AEC may treat it as a Late Tender.
Unintentional errors of form
If the AEC considers that there is an unintentional error of form in a Tender, the AEC may, at its absolute discretion, allow the Tenderer to correct or clarify the error.
Where the AEC considers that such a correction or clarification would introduce unfairness into the evaluation process, the corrections will not be admitted for evaluation.
Clarification of Tenders by the AEC
After the RFT Closing Time, the AEC may seek clarification on any matter from any Tenderer.
The AEC may require a Tenderer to submit additional information to allow further consideration of its Tender. 
In the event that the AEC requires clarification of a Tender, the Tenderer may be required to courier or security post the originals of the signature and/or initialled pages to the AEC within the timeframe and to the address specified by the AEC.    
Tenderers should:
respond to any request for clarification within the time period and in the format specified by the AEC;
ensure that clarifying information provided answers the AEC's enquiry and is consistent with the Tender submitted by the Tenderer; and
not seek to materially alter any aspect of their Tender.
Where the AEC considers that such clarification or additional information would introduce unfairness into the evaluation process, it will not be admitted for evaluation.
Evaluation 
Overview
Following the RFT Closing Time, an evaluation process will take place to determine the Tenders that offer the best value for money overall for the AEC.  
The evaluation process will be conducted in the following stages:
Stage 1: Initial screening;
Stage 2: Assessment against the Scored Evaluation Criteria; and
Stage 3: Assessment of Best Value for Money Overall.
Neither the Tenderer with the lowest price, nor any Tender, will necessarily be accepted by the AEC.
Evaluation Criteria
The Evaluation Criteria are listed in Item 12. They are provided for the information of Tenderers to enable them to prepare a Tender that best satisfies this RFT.
Each Tenderer is encouraged to address the Evaluation Criteria in its Tender in sufficient detail to enable an effective evaluation of its Tender. 
The Evaluation Criteria are not listed in any order of importance, however, a Scored Evaluation Criterion identified as Important will have greater weight than one identified as Desirable. If weightings are to be used, the specific weighting of each criterion will be set out in Item 12 if required by the CPRs.
In relation to the Non-scored Evaluation Criteria:
Tenderers should complete all Annexures in Schedule 3;
the details included in the Pricing Schedule should cover all costs of providing the Services in accordance with the Deed of Standing Offer and Statement of Requirements, including any operating margin, finance cost and return on equity;
other than in the Pricing Schedule, price details, such as surcharges, transport cost pricing, among others, should not be included anywhere else in the Tender;
competitive neutrality requires that government business activities should not enjoy net competitive advantages over their private sector competitors simply by virtue of public sector ownership.  Each Tenderer from the public sector (if any) should demonstrate in its price that the requirements of competitive neutrality have been met, including payment of relevant taxes and charges, rates of return and costs of funds; and
Tenderers should include all assumptions or other caveats on which Tenders are based, and any effect of the assumptions or other caveats on price, as well as information or events required to remove caveats in the Tenderer's completed Pricing Schedule.  If no assumptions or other caveats are included in the Tenderer's completed Pricing Schedule, the Tenderer will be deemed to have represented to the AEC that no assumptions or other caveats apply.
Evaluation approach
Tenderers should note that the AEC intends to select Preferred Tenderers (if any) primarily based on the written Tenders submitted. Tenderers should not consider the AEC to have any prior or assumed knowledge regarding the Tenderer or their capacity to deliver the Services. Accordingly, Tenderers are encouraged to submit their best and unconditional offer in the first instance. 
Each Tender that is complete and meets the Mandatory Requirements will be evaluated to determine how well it meets each Evaluation Criterion.
Tenderers should note that in evaluating a Tender against each Evaluation Criterion, the AEC will consider the entirety of the Tenderer's Tender.  
The evaluation process may involve, at any stage and at the sole and absolute discretion of the AEC:
the AEC contacting some or all Tenderers to clarify aspects of their Tenders;
shortlisting;
presentations or interviews with Tenderers or visits to some or all Tenderers' sites;
discussions with, and/or visits to some or all Tenderers or their customers or subcontractors, whether or not those persons are provided as referees by a Tenderer; and/or
AEC negotiations with any or all Tenderers (see clause 7).
The AEC may make independent enquiries about any matter that may be relevant to the evaluation of a Tender including in relation to performance of any other contract the Tenderer has had with the AEC or any other Commonwealth entity.
The AEC may also include an assessment of risk to the AEC in general and to this RFT process, in particular in its evaluation against each Evaluation Criterion (as well as in the Assessment of Best Value for Money Overall).  The Tenderer's Compliance Statement will be taken into account in the assessment of risk.
Stage 1 – Initial screening 
At Stage 1, the AEC will undertake an initial assessment as to whether each Tender:
is a Late Tender;
complies with each of the Mandatory Requirements;
contains any unintentional errors of form; and
is otherwise incomplete or non compliant with this RFT.
Late Tenders will be excluded from consideration in accordance with clause 5.5. 
Subject to clause 6.4(d), Tenders which the AEC determines do not comply with each of the Mandatory Requirements will be excluded from further consideration.
Where the AEC determines that a Tender is incomplete or does contain unintentional errors of form, the AEC may request the Tenderer to correct or clarify the error in accordance with clause 5.10.
Where the AEC determines that a Tender is otherwise incomplete or non-compliant with this RFT, the AEC may exclude that Tender from further consideration.
The AEC may reach the view that Tenders fall within the categories listed in clauses 6.4(c), 6.4(d) or 6.4(e) at any stage during the evaluation process. 
Stage 2 – Assessment against the Scored Evaluation Criteria
The AEC will assess Tenders that have progressed to Stage 2 against the Scored Evaluation Criteria. 
In evaluating Tenders against the Scored Evaluation Criteria, the AEC will consider:
the merit of the Tender and how it conforms (including completeness) to the relevant Scored Evaluation Criterion;
the degree with which the Tenderer’s assertions and claims are demonstrated or supported, and the merit of any supporting information provided; and
the weighting of each criterion (if applicable).
Stage 3 – Assessment of Best Value for Money Overall
The AEC will determine which of the Tenderers (if any) are likely to be able to provide the Services to the AEC at the best value for money overall, through a comparative assessment of the Tenders against the:   
outcome of Stage 2; and
Non-scored Evaluation Criteria.
When assessing Tenders against the Non-scored Evaluation Criteria:
the AEC will conduct a financial assessment of the prices provided in the completed Pricing Schedule;
the AEC may, at its absolute discretion, consider and if necessary adjust prices in order to establish a common basis for the comparison of Tenders. Such adjustments may include but are not limited to:
consideration of normalised and discounted cash flow;
cost of administration of the Deed of Standing Offer (and any Agreements under it);
any assumptions or other caveats attaching to the price;
consideration of alternative proposals or financial incentives offered by a Tenderer;
accounting for pricing flexibility;
implementation and transition-out costs;
analysis of risks related to a Tender; and
other costs, if any, or financial impacts (including discounts) on the AEC that may arise from appointing a particular Tenderer; 
the AEC may use discounted cash flow to estimate the net present value of amounts in future years of the Deed of Standing Offer (or any Agreements under it), with all assumptions on costs, interest rates and related factors to be determined solely at the discretion of the AEC; 
the AEC is obliged to satisfy itself that prices offered are reasonable. Tenderers agree to provide access to such information as determined by the AEC in order to evaluate the reasonableness of their prices; and
the AEC may, without limitation, take into account:
the Tenderer's response to all Annexures in Schedule 3;
risks identified as a result of the assessment of the Tender against the other Evaluation Criteria;
risks identified from sources other than the Tenderer; 
risks identified as part of conducting the overall risk assessment; and
other risks identified during the evaluation of each Tender.
Negotiation 
Negotiation process
One or more Preferred Tenderers may be chosen for negotiations.
During the negotiation phase (if any) of this RFT process, the AEC may:
engage in detailed discussions and negotiations, including parallel negotiations, with the goal of maximising the value for money overall of a Tender to the AEC; and
seek variations to an offer or may seek supplementary offers in respect of any changes to the originally stated requirements.
As part of the negotiation phase, Preferred Tenderers may be asked to improve any or all aspects of their Tender.
The selection of the Service Provider(s) will be subject to the successful conclusion of negotiations and entry into a Deed of Standing Offer.  
Conduct of negotiations
During negotiations, Tenderers must not seek to alter a clause in the draft Deed of Standing Offer to which they have stated they comply in their Compliance Statement.
Without limiting its other rights under this RFT, if in the AEC's view, during negotiations a Preferred Tenderer has retracted, or attempts to retract, agreements under which material business, financial, technical and / or legal issues were resolved or agreed, the AEC may:
reject the Preferred Tenderer's Tender;
discontinue negotiations with that Tenderer;
re-enter negotiations or parallel negotiations with other Tenderers (including or excluding the Preferred Tenderer and other Preferred Tenderers); 
terminate this RFT process; and/or
exercise any other right reserved to the AEC under law or elsewhere in this RFT.
Notification of outcome and debriefing
The RFT process concludes when one of the following occurs:
the AEC enters into a Deed of Standing Offer with one or more Tenderers; or
the AEC terminates this RFT process in accordance with clause 9.12(a)(xvi).
At the conclusion of the RFT process, the AEC will:
notify all unsuccessful Tenderers who submitted a Tender in writing of the outcome of the evaluation of their Tender; and
offer all Tenderers the opportunity for a debrief in relation to their Tender.
Other terms and conditions
Ownership of Tender documents
The AEC will retain all documents lodged in response to this RFT to enable the evaluation of Tenders and to comply with obligations relating to accountability and record keeping.  Accordingly, Tenderers lodge all material in response to this RFT on the basis that they will become the physical property of the AEC on submission.
Ownership of Intellectual Property Rights in RFT and Tender
Such Intellectual Property Rights as may exist in the Information will remain the property of the AEC. The Tenderer is permitted to use that Information for the purpose only of compiling its Tender and, in the case of the short listed Tenderers, for subsequently negotiating the terms of the Deed of Standing Offer with the AEC.
Such Intellectual Property Rights as may exist in a Tender will remain the property of the Tenderer. Each Tenderer licenses the AEC, its officers, employees, agents, advisers and Ministers and other government representatives to copy, adapt, modify, disclose or do anything else necessary (in the AEC's sole opinion) to all material (including that which contains Intellectual Property Rights of the Tenderer or any other person) contained in that Tender for the purposes of:
conducting this procurement process including evaluating and clarifying Tenders and managing any resulting Deed of Standing Offer with a successful Tenderer; 
complying with any law; and
anything else related to the above purposes, including 
audits; 
complying with governmental and parliamentary reporting requirements including reporting to the Minister;
responding to requests for information from parliament or parliamentary committees; and
responding to any dispute regarding this RFT process.
Tender Validity Period
Each Tender, including the price, remains valid for consideration and acceptance by the AEC throughout the Tender Validity Period.
Political neutrality and Conflict of Interest
Note to Tenderers:  Conflict of Interest is defined to include circumstances where direct or indirect relationship or interest the Tenderer or its personnel may be seen to compromise the political neutrality of the AEC.
The AEC requires that its contractors:  
respect the strict political neutrality of the AEC, as it relates to AEC’s performance of its functions under the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 (Cth), the Referendum (Machinery Provisions) Act 1984 (Cth), Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009 (Cth) and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Act 2005 (Cth); and
do not associate the AEC in any way with any political activity that they undertake (including in relation to a plebiscite or referendum).
Where contractors provide personnel to work under the direction of the AEC in performing services, those personnel may be required to sign a declaration of political neutrality in such a form as may be required by the AEC to ensure that such personnel are aware of this requirement.
The Tenderer should declare at Annexure M to Schedule 3 any circumstances or relationships that constitute or may constitute an actual or potential Conflict of Interest in respect of this RFT or the Tenderer's obligations under any Deed of Standing Offer arising from this RFT process.
If a Tenderer declares a Conflict of Interest pursuant to clause 9.4(c), the Tenderer should set out at Annexure M to Schedule 3 its proposed strategy for managing each such Conflict of Interest.
If at any time prior to entering into a Deed of Standing Offer, an actual or potential Conflict of Interest arises or may arise for any Tenderer, that Tenderer should immediately notify the AEC in writing of that Conflict of Interest. The AEC may, at its absolute discretion:
enter into discussions to seek to resolve such Conflict of Interest;
disregard the Tender submitted by that Tenderer; or
take any other action as it considers appropriate, at its absolute discretion.
Tenderer conduct
The AEC's policy is to engage in the highest standards of ethical behaviour and fair dealing throughout this RFT process. The AEC requires the same standards from those with whom it deals. 
Tenders must not be prepared with:
improper assistance of employees or former employees, or contractors or former contractors of the AEC; or
the use of information improperly obtained or in breach of an obligation of confidentiality.
A Tenderer must not:
engage in misleading or deceptive conduct in connection with this RFT process;
engage in any collusive tendering, anti-competitive conduct, or any other unlawful or unethical conduct with any other Tenderer, or any other person in connection with this RFT process; or
attempt to influence improperly any officer, employee or agent of the AEC, or violate any applicable laws or AEC policies regarding the offering of inducements in connection with this RFT process. 
The AEC will exclude from consideration any Tender lodged by a Tenderer who, in the AECs reasonable opinion, has engaged in any behaviour contrary to this clause 9.5.
Due diligence
Tenderers will be expected to undertake an examination of all matters relevant to the provision of the Services to the AEC prior to lodging their Tender. Tenderers will be deemed to have made their own inquiries regarding provision of the Services. 
The AEC may at its sole and absolute discretion exclude from consideration any Tender that is made subject to any due diligence or other investigation to be performed after the Tender is submitted.
Return of Information
The AEC may, at its absolute discretion, require that at any stage all written Information provided to Tenderers (whether confidential or otherwise and without regard to the type of media on which such Information was provided to any Tenderer), and all copies of such Information made by Tenderers, be:
returned to the AEC - in which case the Tenderer must promptly return all such Information to the address identified by the AEC; or
destroyed by the Tenderer - in which case the Tenderer must promptly destroy all such Information and provide the AEC with written certification that the Information has been destroyed.
Confidentiality of Tenderer information
The AEC will, subject to this RFT, endeavour to treat the following information as confidential:
all Tenders received prior to entering into a Deed of Standing Offer;
all unsuccessful Tenders, following entry into a Deed of Standing Offer; and
all successful Tenders, following entry into a Deed of Standing Offer but only to the extent that:
the successful Tenderer requests that specific information in that Tender be kept confidential; and
the AEC has determined that specific information is to be kept confidential in accordance with the Confidentiality Test and has agreed, pursuant to the Deed of Standing Offer with the successful Tenderer, to keep that information confidential.
Each Tenderer should identify in Annexure L to Schedule 3 any information that it is providing to the AEC in, or related to, its Tender that it considers should be subject to an obligation of confidence on the part of the AEC in the event a Deed of Standing Offer is entered into.  
The AEC will not be taken to have breached any obligation to keep information provided by Tenderers confidential to the extent that the information is:
disclosed by the AEC to its advisers, officers, employees or subcontractors solely in order to conduct this procurement process or to prepare and manage any resultant Deed of Standing Offer (or any Agreement under it);
disclosed to the AEC’s internal management personnel to enable effective management or auditing of this procurement process;
disclosed by the AEC to the responsible Minister or in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia;
shared by the AEC within the AEC’s organisation, or with another Commonwealth agency, where this serves the Commonwealth’s legitimate interests;
authorised or required by law to be disclosed; 
disclosed to meet the AEC’s reporting or accountability requirements; 
disclosed by the AEC to the Auditor General, Ombudsman, Privacy Commissioner, Information Commissioner or Freedom of Information Commissioner or their delegates; or
in the public domain otherwise than due to a breach of the relevant obligations of confidentiality.
Change affecting Tenderer
A Tenderer must promptly notify the AEC of any change, after submission of its Tender, which may have an adverse impact on its access to the necessary skills, resources, or corporate or financial backing to perform the Services under the Deed of Standing Offer.
Where such change would alter any of the information or assurances that the Tenderer has given in its Tender, the Tenderer must promptly:
notify the AEC;
identify with specificity (including any relevant page, section, clause, Schedule, Annexure and other like references to its Tender, and any other material and information provided to the AEC) all such information and assurances; and
state in detail the alterations to such information and assurances required by such change.
If the AEC receives a notice under clauses 9.9(a) or (b), or becomes aware of an event under those clauses, the AEC may either exclude the Tender from consideration or consider the Tender taking into account the impact of the changed circumstances on the information provided in the Tender.
Publicity
The Tenderer may not issue any information, publication, document or article for publication in any media which includes details of the Services under the Deed of Standing Offer or which otherwise refers or is connected to the AEC or this RFT process, without the prior written approval of the AEC. 
No contract or undertaking
Without limiting any obligations on a Tenderer, nothing in this RFT will be construed to create any binding contract (express or implied) between the AEC and any Tenderer until a Deed of Standing Offer is entered into with the successful Tenderer (if any).  Any conduct or statement whether prior to or subsequent to the issue of this RFT is not, and this RFT is not, and must not be deemed to be:
an offer to contract by the AEC; or
a binding undertaking of any kind by the AEC (including, without limitation, quasi-contractual rights, promissory estoppel, or rights with a similar legal basis).
If a court finds there to be a contract between the AEC and a Tenderer regarding the conduct of this RFT process contrary to clause 9.11(a), the AEC's liability for any breach of the terms of such contract is limited to the Tenderer's direct substantiated costs of participation in this RFT process. The AEC's liability generally in connection with this RFT process (eg for negligence or breach of statute) is limited to the same amount. For the avoidance of doubt, the AEC will not be liable for any Indirect Loss of the Tenderer.
AEC's rights
Without limiting its rights at law or otherwise and notwithstanding any other clause of this RFT, the AEC reserves the right at its absolute discretion at any time to:
vary this RFT process;
provide or not provide additional clarification or information to Tenderers;
amend this RFT, including extending the RFT Closing Time, by giving written notice to Tenderers (where possible) and advertising the changes on the AusTender website;
issue addenda to this RFT, in which case all terms and conditions of this RFT will apply to any addenda unless amended in the addenda;
amend the terms and conditions or the schedules of the Deed of Standing Offer at any time, including:
to add to, alter, delete or exclude any part of the Services to be supplied under the Deed of Standing Offer; and
following the receipt and evaluation of Tenders;
require additional information or clarification from any Tenderer or anyone else or provide additional information or clarification;
negotiate with any one or more Tenderers (including without shortlisting), or discontinue negotiations with any Tenderer at any time for any reason;
allow any Tenderer to change its Tender at any time;
seek amended, or call for new, Tenders;
reject any Tender received after the RFT Closing Time;
shortlist or select Preferred Tenderers or choose not to do so;
accept all or part of any Tender, including a non-compliant Tender or a Tender that is not the lowest priced;
reject all or part of a Tender at any time, including a Tender that complies with this RFT;
accept a Tender for a different requirement than set out in the Statement of Requirements;
reject or accept at any time any alternative Tender;
cease to proceed with, or suspend, the process outlined in this RFT, including where the AEC considers that:
it is in the public interest to do so;
no Tender meets the Mandatory Requirements;
no Tenderer is fully capable of undertaking the Deed of Standing Offer; 
the Australian Government approves the procurement of the Services under a co-ordinated procurement process as described in clause 10.2(a); or
no Tender represents value for money;
where clause 9.12(a)(xvi) applies:
negotiate with any person (including a person who is not a Tenderer) and enter into a Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of some of all of the Services with that person on such terms as the AEC at its absolute discretion accepts without prior notice to any Tenderer;
enter into an agreement or binding relationship outside the RFT process; or
not award an agreement at all;
publish or disclose the names of the successful Tenderer(s) and the subcontractors to be used in supplying the Services; 
allow or not allow a Related Body Corporate or another legal entity to take over a Tender in substitution for the original Tenderer; or
if a panel of Service Providers is established, cancel, vary, supplement, supersede or replace the panel or any member of the panel.
Any time or date contained in this RFT is provided for the sole convenience of the AEC. The establishment of a time or date in this RFT does not create an obligation on the part of the AEC to take any action or create any right in any Tenderer that any action be taken on the date established. The AEC may, but is not obliged to, notify affected Tenderers if the AEC exercises any of its rights listed above in clause 9.12(a), but will not be obliged to provide any reasons for its actions.
Tenderer's acknowledgment
This RFT contains information concerning the AEC and its requirements in respect of the Services. It has been prepared for the sole use of Tenderers in deciding whether or not to lodge a Tender. This RFT does not:
purport to contain all the information that an interested Tenderer would desire, or require, to assess the opportunity;
comprise any sort of recommendation by the AEC; or
include any investment, accounting, financial, legal or tax advice.
The AEC, its officers, employees, agents and advisers:
are not, and will not, be responsible or liable for the accuracy, currency, reliability or completeness of the Information;
make no express or implied representation or warranty that any estimate or forecast will be achieved or that any statement as to future matters will prove correct;
expressly disclaim any and all liability arising from the Information including, without limitation, errors in, or omissions contained in the Information;
except so far as liability under any statute cannot be excluded, accept no responsibility arising in any way from errors in, or omissions from this RFT, the Information, or in negligence; and
have no responsibility to inform any Tenderer of any matter arising or of which they become aware which may affect or qualify any Information provided to Tenderers in any way.
Submission of a Tender will constitute evidence of and an acknowledgement by the Tenderer that:
it has read this RFT and understands this RFT process and its requirements;
it has examined the AusTender Terms of Use;  
it has examined this RFT, all documents referred to in this RFT and all other Information made available to it in writing by the AEC including all applicable legislation and policies, and has independently satisfied itself as to the accuracy of the Information;
it has sought appropriate professional advice on this RFT and all Information, and on the impact of all laws, accounting, financial and tax issues on its participation in this RFT process and on its obligations under any subsequent Deed of Standing Offer;
it has made enquiries of all appropriate persons and taken other steps as appropriate, including having examined all further information which is obtainable by making reasonable enquiries relevant to the risks, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its Tender and any subsequent Deed of Standing Offer or any assumptions, uncertainties and contingencies which may affect the AEC's future business;
it has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its Tender; 
in deciding whether to submit a Tender, it has relied entirely on its own enquiries and has not relied on any express or implied statement, warranty or representation, whether oral, written, or otherwise made by or on behalf of the AEC, its officers, employees, agents or advisers other than any statement, warranty or representation contained in Information made available in writing by the AEC;
it complies (or has complied) with the requirements of all applicable laws and policies in preparing and lodging its Tender and taking part in this RFT process, including but not limited to clause 9.5, and the laws and policies referred to in clause 10; 
apart from any actual or potential Conflict of Interest declared in Annexure M to Schedule 3 at the date of submitting the Tender, no Conflict of Interest exists or might arise concerning the Tenderer in respect of this RFT or the Tenderer's obligations under any arising from this RFT process; 
the Tenderer is responsible for all costs and expenses referred to in clause 9.14; and 
the AEC will be relying on all of the information contained in the Tenderer's Tender and all of the representations made in such Tender, and any subsequent written and/or verbal clarifications of that Tender for the purposes of evaluating the Tender against Tenders received from other persons.
Responsibility for Tender costs
Participation in any stage of this RFT process, or in relation to any matter concerning this RFT will be at each Tenderer's sole risk, cost and expense.  The Tenderer will be and the AEC will not be responsible in any circumstances for any costs or expenses incurred by any Tenderer related to:
responding to this RFT, or taking any action in relation to this RFT process; 
any Deed of Standing Offer negotiations;
any other action including any dispute or response in relation to this RFT; or
any agreement a Tenderer has made or may make in connection with any potential Deed of Standing Offer.   
Without limiting clause 9.14(a), the AEC is not liable to any Tenderer on the basis of any promissory estoppel, quantum meruit, quantum valebat, or any other contractual, quasi contractual or restitutionary grounds or in negligence as a consequence of any matter or thing relating to or incidental to a Tenderer's participation in this RFT process, including, without limitation:
the procurement process for this RFT;
where a Tenderer is not successful under this RFT process;
where the AEC varies, suspends or terminates this RFT process or negotiates with a Tenderer; or
where the AEC exercises, or fails to exercise, any of its other rights under or in relation to this RFT.
Applicable law
The law applying in the Australian Capital Territory applies to this RFT and this RFT process.  Each Tenderer must comply with all relevant laws in preparing and lodging its Tender and taking part in this RFT process.
Complaints
If a Tenderer has a complaint concerning this RFT or the AEC's management of any aspect of this RFT process, the Tenderer should provide written notice of the details of the complaint:
where the complaint is about an alleged contravention of the Commonwealth Procurement Rules under the Government Procurement (Judicial Review) Act 2018 (Cth) (GPJR Act) with the accountably authority (or its delegate) of the AEC by submitting a complaint via the AEC website; and
for all other complaints -  to the Contact Officer.
A complaint lodged by the Tenderer under clause 9.16(a)(i), should comply with the requirements under the GPJR Act and must detail:  
any alleged or proposed conduct in contravention of the relevant Commonwealth Procurement Rules; and
how the interests of the Tenderer or a supplier are affected by the alleged or proposed conduct. 
If the AEC receives a complaint lodged by a Tenderer under clause 9.16(a)(i) then the AEC reserves the right to suspend this RFT process as required under the GPJR Act. 
The AEC will provide acknowledgement to the Tenderer that the complaint has been received in accordance with the AEC Complaint Management Policy.
Complaints will not prejudice a Tenderer’s participation in any of the AEC’s future RFT processes. 
Applicable laws and policies
The attention of each Tenderer is drawn to the legislation and policies set out in this clause 10.  The Tenderer should obtain, and will be deemed to have obtained, its own advice on the impact of any laws and policies on its participation in this RFT process and performance of the Deed of Standing Offer.
Commonwealth procurement
This procurement process will be conducted in accordance with the Commonwealth Procurement Rules (CPRs).  
Tenderers should make their own enquiries about the CPRs and other relevant Commonwealth policies which apply to the procurement process initiated by this RFT.  The website of the Department of Finance is an appropriate starting point for any inquiry about relevant Commonwealth procurement policy - see https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement
Coordinated procurement
It is possible that the Australian Government may approve the procurement of some or all of the Services under a coordinated process:
before the Tender Validity Period ends; 
after the Tender Validity Period ends but before a Deed of Standing Offer is signed with the successful Tenderer(s); or 
during the term of any Deed of Standing Offer entered into as a result of this RFT.  
If clause 10.2(a)(i) or clause 10.2(a)(ii) applies, the AEC reserves the right to discontinue this RFT process. If clause 10.2(a)(iii) applies, the AEC may exercise its right under the Deed of Standing Offer to terminate the Deed of Standing Offer for convenience. 
Each Tenderer should refer to the Deed of Standing Offer, which details the termination mechanisms that may apply to the Deed of Standing Offer. Further information about coordinated procurement and scoping studies is available at the Department of Finance website.
Indigenous Procurement Policy
Tenderers should note that the Indigenous Procurement Policy applies to this procurement.  More information on the Indigenous Procurement Policy can be found at https://www.niaa.gov.au/sites/default/files/publications/indigenous-procurement-policy.pdf
Tenderers should note that while the Indigenous Procurement Policy applies, given the nature of this procurement, Section 3 (mandatory set-aside of certain Commonwealth contracts) and Section 4 (Minimum requirements for certain Commonwealth contracts) do not apply to this RFT or any resulting Agreement.  Notwithstanding this, the AEC welcomes responses to this RFT from Indigenous owned businesses.
Access and disclosure regimes
Rights of the Auditor-General
The Auditor-General Act 1997 (Cth) provides the Auditor-General or an authorised person with a right to have, at all reasonable times, access to information, documents and records.
Freedom of information
The Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) and the Freedom of Information Amendment (Reform) Act 2010 (Cth) (together the FOl Act) give members of the public right of access to documents in the possession of the Commonwealth and its agencies. 
The FOI Act extends as far as possible the right of the community to access documents in the possession of the Commonwealth, limited only by exceptions and exemptions necessary for the protection of essential public interests and the private and business affairs of persons in respect of whom information is collected and held by agencies and public authorities.
Public interest disclosure
The Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013 (Cth) (the PID Act) applies to Australian Government agencies, Commonwealth companies, public authorities and Commonwealth contracted service providers.
The PID Act removes barriers that prevent people who work in the public sector from speaking up about serious problems. It also makes sure disclosures are properly investigated and provides protection for those that report allegations. 
Publication of Deed of Standing Offer details
Tenderers should be aware that the AEC is subject to specific accountability requirements, which support internal and external scrutiny of its tendering and contracting processes. These include:
the requirement to publish details of:
contracts and agreements with an estimated value of $10,000 or more; and 
standing offer arrangements regardless of value,
on AusTender;
the requirement to report details of Commonwealth contracts valued at $100,000 or more in accordance with the Procedural Order of Continuing Effect: Department and Agency Contracts, including the:
name of the service provider and the subject matter of the contract;
total value of the contract; and
whether the contract contains clauses that are confidential, and if so, the reasons for confidentiality; 
the requirement to publish information about certain procurements in annual reports; and
the requirement to make available, on request, the names of any subcontractors engaged to perform services in relation to the Deed of Standing Offer (as such, Tenderers must inform all potential subcontractors that their participation in fulfilling obligations under the Deed of Standing Offer may be publicly disclosed and obtain their agreement to this).
Workplace Gender Equality 
Australian Government policy prevents the Commonwealth from entering into contracts with suppliers who are currently named as non-compliant under the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) (WGE Act). The Deed of Standing Offer requires that each Service Provider must:
comply with its obligations, if any, under the WGE Act; and 
if the term of the Deed of Standing Offer exceeds 18 months, the Service Provider must provide a current letter of compliance within 18 months from the Commencement Date and following this, annually to the AEC,
if they are a relevant employer as defined under the WGE Act.
Successful Tenderers should note that if during the term of the Deed of Standing Offer the Service Provider becomes non-compliant with the WGE Act, the Service Provider must notify the AEC. For further information about the coverage of the WGE Act, Tenderers can contact the Workplace Gender Equality Agency on (02) 9432 7000.
Tenderers must indicate as part of their Tender at Annexure B to Schedule 3, whether or not the Tenderer is a ‘relevant employer’ under the WGE Act and, if applicable provide a current letter of compliance with the WGE Act as part of their Tender, or prior to entering into a Deed of Standing Offer.
Environmental policy and procurement
The Australian Government aims to improve the implementation of ecologically sustainable development within its agencies. Copies of relevant policies, such as the National Waste policy, Energy Efficiency in Government Operations policy and the Australian Packaging Covenant, are available at the Department of the Environment’s website:  http://www.environment.gov.au/.
The AEC wishes to be informed of any claims made by Tenderers about the benefits to the environment of the Services including details of actions taken by the Tenderer to:
improve the energy / resource efficiency or reduce energy consumption associated with delivery of the Services;
reduce or eliminate waste associated with the delivery of the Services; and
reduce fuel use, reduce air pollution and mitigate emissions associated with transport.
Tenderers should indicate the particular part of the production process or characteristic of any part of the Services offered by them that they claim is environmentally beneficial in their Tender at Annexure G to Schedule 3.
Employee entitlements
It is Australian Government policy not to contract with suppliers who have had a judicial decision against them (not including decisions under appeal) relating to employee entitlements and who have not paid the claim.
To enable the AEC to confirm the Tenderer’s compliance with this requirement, each Tenderer must complete the Tenderer's Declaration.
Illegal workers
It is Australian Government policy not to contract with suppliers that engage illegal workers. 
Lobbying Code of Conduct
A person engaged as a contractor by the AEC will be a "government representative" for the purposes of the Lobbying Code of Conduct, and will be required to comply with the Lobbying Code of Conduct.  A copy of the Lobbying Code of Conduct is available at: https://lobbyists.ag.gov.au/about/code.
The Tenderer must, and must ensure that its subcontractors (if any) will, comply with the Lobbying Code of Conduct and the Australian Public Service Commission (APSC) Circular 2008/4, Requirements relating to the Lobbying Code of Conduct and Post Separation Contact with Government where their activities fall within the scope of the Lobbying Code of Conduct.
Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct
It is a condition of this tender that the Tenderer complies with the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct (ttps://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct). 
To enable the AEC to confirm the Tenderer’s compliance with this requirement, each Tenderer must complete the Tenderer’s Declaration.
- Statement of Requirements
Note to Tenderers: See separate attachment
Schedule 2 - Draft Deed of Standing Offer
Note to Tenderers: See separate attachment
Schedule 3 - Tender Form
Request for Tender for provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment for Electoral Events
RFT:  AEC SRC006427
This Schedule 3 contains the Annexures set out below.  Tenderers should use the list below as a checklist to ensure that they have completed all of the necessary Annexures.  The Annexure letter, heading and (where applicable) signature block should be included for each Annexure to this Tender Form.  
Annexure A – Contact details
Annexure B – Tenderer’s Declaration (Deed Poll)
Annexure C – Executive summary
Annexure D – Pricing Schedule
Annexure E – Financial and commercial capacity
Annexure F – Compliance Statement
Annexure G – Understanding of and approach to the Services
Annexure H – Track record
Annexure I – Management of Changed Requirements at Short Notice
Annexure J - Experience and qualifications of Specified Personnel
Annexure K – Value Added Services
Annexure L – Tenderer Confidential Information
Annexure M – Conflict of Interest
Annexure N – Risk Management Plan
Annexure O – Indicative Delivery Timings
– Contact details
Tenderer details
Details of subcontractors
Note to Tenderers:  Repeat the box below as necessary.
– Tenderer’s Declaration (Deed Poll)
Parties	
By 	[Insert name of person executing the Deed Poll] of [Insert address of person signing the Deed Poll] (Representative)
In favour
of	The Commonwealth of Australia represented by the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC)
Background
The AEC has issued a Request for Tender AEC SRC006427 for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment for Electoral Events (RFT).
As part of the RFT process, the AEC requires the Tenderer to provide this Tenderer's Declaration. 
Operative provisions
Authority
The Representative holds the position of [managing director or other title] of the Tenderer and is duly authorised to execute this deed on the Tenderer’s behalf.
The Representative executes this deed on behalf of the Tenderer and on behalf of itself. 
Definitions and interpretation
In this deed:
Tender means the tender lodged by the Tenderer in connection with the RFT;
Tenderer means [list name, ABN and physical address of Tenderer] and in this deed includes the Representative; and
all other capitalised terms have the same meaning as in the RFT.
In this deed headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation and unless the context indicates a contrary intention:
a reference to a party includes that party's executors, administrators, successors and that party's permitted assigns, including persons taking by way of novation;
a reference to a part, clause, schedule, exhibit, attachment or annexure is a reference to a clause, schedule, exhibit, attachment or annexure to or of this deed poll;
a reference to an Annexure is a reference to an Annexure to the Tenderer's Tender Form;
a reference to a document (including this deed poll) is to that document as varied, novated, ratified or replaced from time to time;
a word importing the singular includes the plural (and vice versa), and a word indicating a gender includes every other gender;
if a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other part of speech or grammatical form of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning; and
the word "includes" in any form is not a word of limitation.
The offer and change of circumstances
To the best of the Tenderer's knowledge after having made proper enquiry, the Tender is accurate in every respect. The Tenderer acknowledges that if it is found to have made false or misleading claims or statements, or to have used Confidential Information improperly obtained, or received improper assistance, except in accordance with the RFT, the AEC may reject at any time any Tender lodged by or on behalf of the Tenderer.
The Tenderer agrees:
that the Tenderer will be bound by its Tender for the Tender Validity Period;
that its Tender may be accepted by the AEC at any time before the expiration of the Tender Validity Period or as agreed between the Tenderer and the AEC;
that its Tender will not be deemed to be accepted except as specified in the RFT;
that the AEC is not bound to accept the lowest priced or any Tender; and
to promptly notify the AEC of any change, after submission of its Tender, to the basis upon which it will have access to the necessary skills, resources or corporate or financial backing to perform the Deed of Standing Offer.
Where a change referred to in clause 9.9 of the RFT would alter any of the information or assurances that the Tenderer has given in its Tender, the Tenderer undertakes to promptly:
notify the AEC;
identify with specificity (including all relevant page, section, clause, Schedule, exhibit and other like references to its Tender, and any other material and information provided to the AEC) all such information and assurances; and
state in detail the alterations to such information and assurances required by such change.
Tenderer's conduct
The Tenderer represents that, to the best of its knowledge after having made proper enquiry, it has:
not made any false declarations in respect of any current or past dealings with the AEC, including in any procurement process or in any contract for goods, services or construction works;
had no significant deficiency in the performance of any substantive requirement or obligation under any prior contract with the AEC which would materially adversely affect the Tenderer’s ability to deliver the Services as required;
the skills and resources (including, without limitation, corporate and financial resources), or will be able to obtain the skills and resources, likely to be required to properly provide the Services; 
not, in connection with the RFT process:
engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct; or
engaged in any collusive tendering, anti-competitive conduct, or any other unlawful or unethical conduct with any other Tenderer, or any other person;
examined the RFT and any other information made available to it in writing by the AEC for the purpose of this RFT;
examined all further information which is obtainable by making reasonable enquiries relevant to the risks, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its Tender; and
satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its Tender.
The Tenderer has not attempted to influence improperly any officer, employee or agent of the AEC, or violated any applicable laws or the AEC policies regarding the offering of inducements in connection with the RFT process.
The Tenderer has not prepared its Tender with the improper assistance of employees or former employees, or any contractor or former contractors of the AEC or with the use of information improperly obtained or in breach of an obligation of confidentiality.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees, agents or contractors had knowledge of the content of any Tender (including price) of any other Tenderer prior to the Tenderer submitting its Tender.
Neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees, agents or contractors disclosed the content of the Tender (including price) submitted by the Tenderer to any other Tenderer or to any other person or organisation, excluding any subcontractors listed at Annexure A of the Tenderer’s Tender, prior to the RFT Closing Time.
Prior to the Tenderer submitting its Tender, neither the Tenderer nor any of its employees, agents or contractors entered into any contract, agreement, arrangement or understanding that if successful, the Tenderer would pay any money, or would provide any other benefit or other financial advantage, to or for the benefit of any other party who unsuccessfully responded to the RFT.
If the Tender is lodged via AusTender the Tenderer warrants that it has taken reasonable steps to ensure that the Tender files are free from any Harmful Code which may affect AusTender or the AEC's computing environment.
Costs
The Tenderer acknowledges that participation in any stage of the RFT process, or in relation to any matter concerning the RFT, will be at its sole risk, cost and expense.  The Tenderer will be, and the AEC will not be, responsible in any circumstance for any costs or expenses incurred by the Tenderer related to:
responding to, or complying with the requirements of, the RFT or the RFT process, or
taking any other action, including any dispute or response, in relation to the RFT or the RFT process.
Political neutrality and Conflict of Interest
Apart from any actual or potential Conflict of Interest declared in Annexure M of Schedule 3 at the date of submitting the Tender, no Conflict of Interest exists or might arise concerning the Tenderer in respect of the RFT or the Tenderer's obligations under any Deed of Standing Offer arising from the RFT process.
If at any time prior to entering into a Deed of Standing Offer, an actual or potential Conflict of Interest of the nature specified in clause 9.4 of the RFT arises or may arise, the Tenderer will notify the AEC in writing of that Conflict of Interest. 
Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth)
The Tenderer warrants and undertakes that, for the purposes of the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth), it is: [Please tick the relevant box]
a relevant employer, and submits a letter of compliance with the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) as part of this Tender;
a relevant employer and acknowledges a letter of compliance with the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) will need to be submitted, if the Tenderer is successful, before a Deed of Standing Offer can be entered into; or
not a relevant employer.
For the purposes of this clause, relevant employer is defined as being a non-public sector employer (including higher education institutions, trade unions and not-for profit organisations) of 100 or more employees in Australia. 
Lobbying Code of Conduct
The Tenderer represents and warrants that it has not breached the Lobbying Code of Conduct or the Australian Public Service Commission (APSC) Circular 2008/4, Requirements relating to the Lobbying Code of Conduct and Post Separation Contact with Government where its activities fall within the scope of the Lobbying Code of Conduct.
Supplier Code of Conduct
The Tenderer represents and warrants that, as at the date of its tender, it is compliance with the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct, published on 1 July 2024, as updated from time to time (https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct/commonwealth-supplier-code-conduct). 
Employee entitlements
The Tenderer represents and warrants that neither it nor any of its subcontractors (if any), having made all reasonable enquiries, has any unsettled judicial decisions against it relating to unpaid employee entitlements.
Black economy procurement connected policy
The Tenderer represents that if it is the successful tenderer:
it will ensure that any first tier subcontractor not included in its Tender that it subsequently engages to deliver goods or services with an estimated value of over $4 million (GST inclusive) provides it with a Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record that is Valid at the time of entry into the subcontract; and
if its Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record is or will be no longer Valid at the time any Deed of Standing Offer will be entered into with the AEC, it will, if requested by the AEC, provide the AEC with a renewed Valid and Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record prior to the Deed of Standing Offer being entered into.
Laws
The Tenderer represents that, to the best of its knowledge after having made proper enquiry, it has complied with, and will continue to comply with all relevant laws in preparing and lodging its Tender and taking part in the RFT process.
Security, probity and financial checks
Without limiting clause 4.5 of the RFT, the Tenderer consents, and has obtained or will obtain all necessary consents (including from subcontractors and Related Bodies Corporate), to the AEC and its officers, employees, agents or advisers:
performing such security, probity and financial checks and procedures as the AEC, in its absolute discretion, may determine are necessary (including in relation to subcontractors and Related Bodies Corporate); and
seeking any financial information required for the purpose of establishing the financial viability of the Tenderer.
The Tenderer agrees to provide, at its cost, all reasonable assistance to the AEC to assist it in performing any checks and procedures.
Acknowledgement and agreement
The Tenderer has read the RFT and understands the RFT process and its requirements.
In particular, the Tenderer confirms the acknowledgements on its part found in clauses 9.13 and 9.14 of the RFT.
The Tenderer represents that it will not, in negotiating the terms of any Deed of Standing Offer with the AEC, depart from the information it has provided or statements or claims it has made in its Tender in a manner that is detrimental or disadvantageous to the AEC.
Without limiting or being constrained by any other clause of this deed, the Tenderer agrees to comply with the RFT, including obligations and acknowledgments contained in the RFT, and acknowledges and agrees that the AEC may exercise any of its rights in or in respect of the RFT process.
Governing law
This deed is subject to and is to be construed in accordance with the laws in force in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The courts of the Australian Capital Territory will have non-exclusive jurisdiction to decide any matter arising out of this deed.
Execution
Executed as a deed poll
– Executive summary
Tenderers should provide a brief summary of their Tender below.
This summary should not contain any information that the Tenderer would not wish to have made available in the public domain. 
– Pricing Schedule
Tenderers must include a proposed Pricing Schedule for the Services using the excel spreadsheet provided as an Attachment to this Annexure D. 
Tendered prices for the Services must:
be submitted on both a GST inclusive and GST exclusive basis and otherwise include all applicable Australian and overseas taxes, duties, and charges; and
include all costs and expenses necessary and incidental to the proper delivery of the Services, including all surcharges and additional fees such as transport charges, among others.
Tenderers must include details of any assumptions or other caveats on which their Tender is based, the price effect of the assumptions, and information or events required to remove caveats.
Where possible, prices will be fixed for the Deed Period of the Deed of Standing Offer.
Using the spreadsheet provided, Tenderers should specify any volume discounts that the AEC will be entitled to and any ‘package pricing’ that can be offered within and across Jurisdictions or nationally (where relevant). 
When determining their proposed pricing, Tenderers should be aware of the functions of the AEC and the fact that the successful Tenderer will be required to seek to minimise any disruption to the AEC's performance of its functions when performing the Services.
Tenderers should also note clause 6.6 of the RFT in preparing this Pricing Schedule.
The excel spreadsheet provided as an Attachment to this Annexure D, provides the most up-to-date indicative information on possible delivery sites and requirement volumes. To assist to Tenderers, there is also indicative delivery timing and profile information based on 2025 Federal Election estimations available in Annexure O
– Financial and commercial capacity 
Each Tenderer must satisfy the AEC of its financial and commercial capacity to provide the Services in accordance with the Deed of Standing Offer.
Each Tenderer should provide the following or equivalent information to satisfy the AEC of its financial and commercial capacity:
details of its ownership structure;
Australian Business Number for GST purposes; 
if registered with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, any Australian Company Number or Australian Registered Body Number;
if registered under State or Territory legislation, any registered business name or association name;
a full description of the Tenderer's current operations;
the names of all directors and officers of the Tenderer's organisation; and
business profiles and corporate objectives and priorities of its organisation.
If the Tenderer is a company it should provide:
full details of the legal and financial relationship between itself and any Related Body Corporate;
the names of all directors and officers and business profiles and corporate objectives and priorities for each Related Body Corporate; and
the details of its largest shareholders.
If the Tenderer is a partnership it should provide the names and addresses of all partners and a copy of the partnership deed.
The Tenderer should disclose any civil or criminal prosecutions within the past five years of the Tenderer, any Related Body Corporate, any partner or any director or officer of the foregoing concerning any of the following, or any allegation of the following:
failure to pay any taxes, levies, fees, duties, or other similar payments to the Commonwealth of Australia, to any State or local taxing authority within Australia or to any foreign taxing authority;
malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance of any duties imposed by law in Australian or in any foreign jurisdiction; or
participation in, or acquiescence to, any practices in the dealing with any government in Australia or any foreign jurisdiction that are unlawful under the law of Australia or the foreign jurisdiction concerned, or (if relating to a parent entity or Related Body Corporate or director or officer thereof) under the law of any jurisdiction that such parent entity or related organisation is subject to.
The Tenderer should disclose any pending investigation of a similar nature as the items described in paragraph 5 of any of the entities or persons indicated in this Annexure E of which such entity or person has actual notice.
The Tenderer should provide the following (or equivalent information) to satisfy the AEC of its financial capacity:
annual reports or audited financial statements for its last three years of operation.  If the statements are not audited, the Tenderer should provide pre-audited statements;
descriptions of any recent changes of substance in the Tenderer's financial position that are not reflected in the most recent annual report or financial statement provided pursuant to paragraph 7(a) above;
a summary of any court actions, charges, liens or encumbrances affecting the Tenderer's assets or the ownership of the Tenderer or any directors or partners of the Tenderer (including any such court actions, charges, liens, or incumbencies affecting any parent entity);
details of any significant events, matters or circumstances which have arisen since the end of the last financial year which may significantly affect the Tenderer’s ability to perform the Deed of Standing Offer;
details of insurance cover held and/or proposed in respect of the Deed of Standing Offer.  Such details should include, but need not be limited to:
types of insurance coverage held;
details of any blanket policy held; and
amount of cover provided in each policy;
a statement confirming the solvency of the Tenderer and any Related Body Corporate, principal share and equity holders and partners;
a statement that the Tenderer is not aware of any application to place the Tenderer or any Related Body Corporate, principal share and equity holders or partners in liquidation, administration or the equivalent; and
any other factors the Tenderer desires to describe to support its demonstration of its financial capacity.
Newly-formed organisations
If the Tenderer does not have an established track record of service delivery (for example if the Tenderer has been recently created):
the AEC expects that the Tenderer will provide sufficient information and assurances in the categories above in order to satisfy the AEC that the Tenderer has access to the necessary resources and will have an appropriate level of financial backing, to perform the Deed of Standing Offer; and
the Tenderer should provide the information and assurances requested for each entity that the Tenderer will be dependent upon for any financial backing including without limitation:
full details of each entity's proposed role in, or relevance to, the performance of the Deed of Standing Offer;
a description of any current or past co-operative ventures between the entities supporting the Tenderer; and
a description of each entity's proposed liability, and any limitations on its liability, relating to the performance of the Deed of Standing Offer.
– Compliance Statement
Each Tenderer is to state in its Tender whether it complies with each clause of this RFT, including clauses in the Statement of Requirements at Schedule 1 and clauses in the draft Deed of Standing Offer at Schedule 2.   
A set of tables is provided below for the Tenderer to indicate its responses. The Tenderer should cross-refer to the RFT, Deed of Standing Offer and Statement of Requirements and indicate in the appropriate column, by way of a tick (P) whether the Tenderer fully complies, partially complies or does not comply with each provision.  
Where the Tenderer only partially complies or does not comply, the Tenderer should indicate the reason for, and extent of, non-compliance and propose any alternate wording for the relevant provision. The Tenderer should also provide reasons for any alternative wording.
The expressions used have the following meaning:
"complies" means:
in the case of a clause which imposes a contractual condition, that the condition is agreed to;
in the case of a clause which specifies a characteristic or performance to be met by the Tenderer, that the Tenderer can (and will) meet the requirement as specified;
in the case of a clause which is of an informative nature only, the clause has been read, understood and is agreed; or
in the case of a clause where information has been requested, that the information has been provided in the required level of detail and in the required format;
"does not comply" means that the contractual obligation, characteristic or performance requirement of the clause cannot be met by the Tenderer; and
"partially complies" means that the contractual condition, characteristic or performance requirement of the clause can be substantially met, subject to certain specified qualifications.
The Tenderer can respond by stating that it complies with all or a group of clauses and paragraphs and note its response on an exceptions basis by separately identifying the clauses or paragraphs with which it partially complies or does not comply.  
The AEC will consider the Tenderer's Compliance Statement in its evaluation of Tenders in accordance with the RFT.  If the Tenderer fails to respond to this Schedule and does not clearly mitigate its risk to the AEC elsewhere in its Tender, its Tender may be evaluated as a high risk to AEC.
The AEC does not intend to negotiate in relation to any clause or schedule in the draft Deed of Standing Offer if the Tenderer's Compliance Statement concerning that clause or schedule contains a response of "complies".
RFT 
Schedule 1 Statement of Requirements
Schedule 2 Draft Deed of Standing Offer
– Understanding of and approach to the Services
Tenderer’s approach, clearly demonstrating their capacity and capability to deliver and invoice the Services.
Tenderers must provide detailed information on their proposed solution to the delivery of the Services set out in the Statement of Requirements, including: What processes does the Tenderer have in place to ensure they will be able to supply the quantity and types of materials they are offering, with the required specifications (see pricing schedule photos and descriptions) in the required timeframes?
In addition to your general model for providing the services, how will you specifically consider the following:
Products - What categories of items does the Tenderer proposing to supply? Does it cover all the item categories (e.g. the various furniture items and warehouse operational items such as shelving, pallet jacks, etc.)?
Types of operation - What categories of our operations does the Tenderer propose to supply? Does it cover OPCs, PPVCs and Static polling places?
Geographic coverage - Will the Tenderer service all identified areas/divisions, including rural and remote locations?  What logistics arrangements, distribution centres, and delivery contingencies support this?
In replying, please also elaborate how they have accounted for the fact that their services may not be required for months, or years (i.e. how can the Tenderer ensure stock is available, when required at an uncertain date in the future)?
How does the Tenderer propose to meet the reporting requirements in Item 2.2 of the Statement of Requirements?
In replying, please also elaborate on what measures will be proposed to make the AEC aware of any additional transport costs or surcharges, in advance, and how they intend to provide the AEC with viable options to lessen or avoid such charges, while still meeting agreed delivery and pick up timeframes?
The AEC has previously experienced difficulties reconciling invoice charges to activities, particularly transport charges and surcharges. As such, in addition to any information provided to earlier questions, please provide further specific detail to the following:
Provide an example of the type of document that will be provided to satisfy the invoicing requirements in Item 2.3 of the Statement of Requirements.  
How will they ensure their pricing structure will be transparent to allow reconciliation between services delivered and the agreed pricing structure (including, in addition to equipment costs, all transport & handling costs and all surcharges)?
Noting the answers to the above, are there any other matters not already mentioned that addresses how the Tenderer would propose to meet the Service Levels in Item 3 of the Statement of Requirements?
– Track record
The Tenderer should provide detailed evidence of their experience and track record in delivering furniture and equipment to other clients with similar requirements and challenges to the AEC, particularly in delivery of high volumes with short and rigid timeframes, and with some destinations not known until very late.
Evidence should include two case studies, each including:
a description of the services provided;
the date of commencement and duration of engagement;
metrics (e.g. quantities, number of locations provided to and delivery timeframes) to confirm the Tenderer’s performance and relevance to the AEC’s requirements; and
referee contact details.
– Management of Changed Requirements at Short Notice  
What processes does the Tenderer have to manage short-notice requirements that arise due to: 
AEC operational needs - what escalation pathways, staffing arrangements, or surge-capacity mechanisms are in place?
External/Weather-Driven – i.e. unexpected changes driven by external factors such as extreme weather or local disruptions?  What contingency or mitigation planning is in place (affecting either your own operations (e.g. flooding of your premises, break-ins, etc.) or delivering to operations (e.g. strikes, fuel shortages, etc.) or both)?
- Experience and qualifications of Specified Personnel
Tenderers must identify the Specified Personnel who will be involved in the provision of the Services, including for each nominated subcontractor (where applicable). 
For each Specified Personnel, Tenderers must provide:
a copy of the Specified Personnel’s curriculum vitae (CV);
details of their personal referee(s); and
details of the function(s) / role that the Specified Personnel will be performing.  
Note to Tenderers:  Repeat the box below as necessary for each Specified Personnel.
– Value Added Services
The AEC is interested in any value added goods and services that the Tenderer is able to offer to the AEC beyond the Service Levels and the standards of performance within the Statement of Requirements (Value Added Service). 
What additional value added services and/or innovative solutions using their industry-specific experience does the Tenderer propose to offer that may enhance AEC outcomes?
Details of volume discounts should be submitted in the Pricing Schedule.  
Where a Value Added Service is proposed, a Tenderer must: 
separately identify, in detail, the proposed Value Added Service; 
justify the Value Added Service with explicit reasons;
propose such additional contractual provisions as are necessary to accommodate the Value Added Service; and 
explain the financial impact (including both the impact on the Tenderer's Pricing Schedule and the impact on the AEC's own resource costs) and any other consequences of the Value Added Service.
Supply Model (Hire / Purchase / Both):
Does the supply model the Tenderer proposes include innovative contracting options such as a purchase with buy back model or other?  Has the Tenderer clearly articulated how these models will operate?
– Tenderer Confidential Information 
Tenderers should identify any information that they are providing to the AEC in, or related to, their Tender that the Tenderer considers should be subject to an obligation of confidence on the part of the AEC during this RFT process, during the negotiation phase or during the term of any Deed of Standing Offer.  
Tenderers should be aware that only information that satisfies the Confidentiality Test will be treated as confidential by the AEC. 
Note to Tenderers:  Refer to clause 9.8 of the RFT.
– Conflict of Interest
The Tenderer should declare any circumstances or relationships that constitute or may constitute an actual or potential Conflict of Interest in respect of the RFT or the Tenderer's obligations under any Deed of Standing Offer arising from the RFT process. 
Tenderers are reminded that Conflict of Interest is defined to include circumstances where a direct or indirect relationship or interest the Tenderer has or its personnel have may be seen to compromise the political neutrality of the AEC. 
The Tenderer should also set out its proposed strategy for managing Conflict(s) of Interest.
Note to Tenderers:  Refer to clause 9.4 of the RFT
– Risk Management Plan
In completing this Annexure N, the Tenderer has identified management approaches to identified risks and raising additional risks that the Tenderer has identified through its depth of experience and technical expertise.
The Tenderer’s response should demonstrate the quality, depth and rigour of its risk analysis, including the accuracy of identified risks, the suitability of proposed treatments, and the practicality of mitigation measures.  
The draft risk management plan will form a basis for a final risk management plan to be included in the Agreement for the Preferred Tenderer(s).
The following risks, as noted in the table below, should be addressed. Tenderers are encouraged to consider any other risks that may arise from the provision of their services to the AEC and interactions with the AEC and its personnel. As an example, where applicable, this should include details of any actual or proposed security arrangements for supplying the Services.
– Indicative Delivery Timings
As noted in Annexure D, the excel spreadsheet provided as an attachment contains the most up-to-date estimation of site locations and possible volumes.
The Tenderer may, nevertheless, also wish to consider the indicative delivery and profile information below in completing their responses.
Static Delivery Timings in the two weeks prior to polling day – Indicative representation from the 2025 Federal Election
The three indicative delivery timings for statics graphs from three different states shown below provide a general representation of the spread of deliveries in the two weeks prior to polling day. 
The following should be noted:
Polling day for the 2025 federal election was 3 May.
ANZAC Day intervened in the last week prior to polling (hence no deliveries on Friday 25 April).
These graphs are not a representation of actual furniture-only deliveries. They are an indication of when materials, including furniture, were delivered to static polling places (i.e. an indication of the availability of polling place venues for materials and furniture arrivals).
The ‘x’ axis (left hand side) indicates the percentage of total deliveries for that given day made to statics out of 100%. That is, a figure of 15% for a given day indicates the 15% of the statics (in number, not in volume of materials) were delivered on that day out of 100% (with 100% indicating the total sum of statics delivered to).
General Delivery Timing Profile Information – State by State
AEC operations in each state jurisdiction were asked to provide a response to general delivery profile information which was felt may be of value to Tenderers in compiling their responses. These responses are indicative and based on information from the 2025 Federal Election.
Tenderers are requested to use this information as an indicative representation only. The state representatives have provided updated estimations of possible requirements in the spreadsheet which Tenderers are to complete with their pricing information which accompanies the Pricing Schedule (Error! Reference source not found.).
Victoria — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 15 (10 metro, 5 regional)
PPVCs: 111 (52 metro, 59 regional)
Statics: 1,551 (972 metro, 579 regional)
Hubs: 61 (5 dedicated hubs, 7 combined PPVC/hubs, 49 combined static/hubs)
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
≈63% delivered 11 weeks before Issue of Writ (IOW)
≈35% delivered 10 weeks before IOW
≈3% residual deliveries 6 and 3 weeks before IOW
OPCs — furniture type
~80% Hired 
~20% Existing/purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Monday – Thursday Week -3 from Polling Day.
Some Monday – Thursday Week -4 from polling day
PPVCs — furniture type
Primarily loaned.
some ad‑hoc purchases by divisions as required.
Statics — delivery timing & effort
Delivery not used for statics.
Statics — furniture type
Provided by venues at no cost
Western Australia — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
5 OPCs (5 metro, 0 regional)
PPVCs – 70
Statics – ~215 delivered to
Hubs – data not given (PPVCs were used as hubs)
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
First delivery delivered Weeks 0 – 4 from issue of writ,
Second delivery delivered Weeks 4 – 8 from issue of writ,
Third delivery delivered Weeks 9–10 from issue of writ
OPCs — furniture type
~80% hired
~20% existing/ purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Not provided
PPVCs — furniture type
95% hired / 5% owned
Statics — delivery timing & effort
Example from Federal Election 2025 (noting the public holiday for easter and return to school on 28 April)
Mon 28 – 30%			
Tues 29 – 25%
Wed 30 - 20%
Thurs 1 – 15%
Friday 2 – 10%
Statics — furniture type
90% hired / 10% owned within greater metro area
South Australia — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 4 (4 metro, 0 regional)
PPVCs: 36 (15 metro, 21 regional)
Statics: 605 (315 metro, 290 regional)
Hubs: 5
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
Items delivered at various dates leading up to IOW
OPCs — furniture type
~50% hired
~50% existing/ purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Monday – Thursday Week -3 from Polling Day.
PPVCs — furniture type
~50% hired
~50% existing/ purchased
Statics — delivery timing & effort
100% delivered by Friday prior to PD
Statics — furniture type
~15% hired 
~85% existing‑purchased
Queensland — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 15 ( 7 metro, 8 regional)
PPVCs: 50 (11 metro, 39 regional)
Statics: Data not given
Hubs: Data not given
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
100% Delivered 5 weeks before IOW
OPCs — furniture type
~75% hired
~25% existing/ purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Week −3 (Mon–Thu before Pre‑Poll Monday)
PPVCs — furniture type
~95% hired
~5% existing/ purchased
Statics — delivery timing & effort
100% Week −1 (Mon–Thu before Polling Day Saturday)
Statics — furniture type
100% hired
Tasmania — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 3 (2 metro, 1 regional)
PPVCs: 14 (7 metro, 7 regional)
Statics: 281 (85 metro, 196 regional)
Hubs: 16 (no furniture required at hubs)
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
Single drop delivered 1 week before IOW
OPCs — furniture type
Mixture: ~5–10% hired / 90–95% existing‑purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Not specified
PPVCs — furniture type
Loaned from venues (no‑cost from venues)
Statics — delivery timing & effort
Not specified (shortfalls covered with cardboard tables)
Statics — furniture type
Loaned from venues (no‑cost from venues)
New South Wales & ACT — Delivery Timing Profile (Supplier View)
Overall scale
OPCs: 19 (6 metro, 13 regional)
PPVCs: ACT: 29, NSW: 473
Statics: ACT: 110, NSW: 2371
Hubs: ACT: 23, NSW: 142
OPCs — delivery timing & effort
9 weeks prior to IOW
OPCs — furniture type
~75% hired
~25% existing‑purchased
PPVCs — delivery timing & effort
Monday – Thursday Week -3 from Polling Day.
PPVCs — furniture type
Hired: ACT: 12%, NSW: 10%
Provided by venue: ACT: 88%, NSW 90%
Statics — delivery timing & effort
Week −1 (Mon–Thu before Polling Day Saturday)
Statics — furniture type
Hired: ACT: 12%, NSW: 16%
Provided by venue: ACT: 88%, NSW: 84%



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Draft Deed of Standing Offer - SRC006427.docx
============================================================

 Table of contents	
 Details	
Parties
The Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Australian Electoral Commission ABN 21 133 285 851 (AEC).
[Insert name of Service Provider] ABN XX XXX XXX (Service Provider).
Recitals
From time to time, the AEC may require the supply of the Services.
The Service Provider has represented that it has the relevant expertise and experience to provide the Services.
The Service Provider has agreed that on the issue of a Work Order by the AEC, it will supply the Services to the AEC on the terms and conditions of this Deed.
The Service Provider acknowledges that there is no guarantee or assurance:
of any particular volume of Services under this Deed; or
that any Work Orders will be placed with the Service Provider.
 Agreed Terms	
Part 1 - Deed
Definitions and interpretation
Definitions
In this Deed and any Agreement, except where the contrary intention is expressed, the following definitions are used:
Interpretation
In this Deed and any Agreement, except where the contrary intention is expressed:
the singular includes the plural and vice versa, and a gender includes other genders;
another grammatical form of a defined word or expression has a corresponding meaning;
a reference to a clause, paragraph, attachment or annexure is to a clause or paragraph of, or attachment or annexure to, this Deed;
a reference to a document or instrument includes the document or instrument as novated, altered, supplemented or replaced from time to time and any schedules, attachments, appendices or annexures to that document or instrument;
a reference to AUD, A$, $A, dollar or$ is to Australian currency;
a reference to time is to the time in the place where the obligation is to be performed;
a reference to a party is to a party to this Deed, and a reference to a party to a document includes the party's executors, administrators, successors and permitted assignees and substitutes;
a reference to a person includes a natural person, partnership, body corporate, association, governmental or local authority or agency or other entity;
if the Service Provider is a trustee, the Service Provider enters into this Deed personally and in its capacity as trustee and:
any warranties given under this Deed or an Agreement are given in both capacities; and
warrants that it has the power to perform its obligations under this Deed and any Agreement;
a reference to a statute, ordinance, code or other Law includes regulations and other instruments under it and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of any of them;
a word or expression defined in the Corporations Act has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act;
(I)	the meaning of general words is not limited by specific examples introduced by including, for example, or similar expressions;
any agreement, representation, warranty or indemnity by two or more parties (including where two or more persons are included in the same defined term) binds them jointly and severally;
any agreement, representation, warranty or indemnity in favour of two or more parties (including where two or more persons are included in the same defined term) is for the benefit of them jointly and severally;
a rule of construction does not apply to the disadvantage of a party because the party was responsible for the preparation of this Deed or a Work Order or any part of it;
if a day on which an obligation must be performed, or an event must occur by, is not a Business Day, the obligation must be performed on, or the event must occur by, the next Business Day; and
headings are for ease of reference only and do not affect interpretation.
Completion of Schedules
To the extent that the parties have not completed Items in a Schedule, unless otherwise stated in the Schedule or in this Deed, those Items will be taken to be 'not applicable' for the purpose of this Deed.
Priority of Deed documents
If there is inconsistency between any of the documents forming part of this Deed, those documents will be interpreted in the following order of priority to the extent of any inconsistency:
the Agreed Terms;
the Schedules in the order in which they appear;
any attachments to the Schedules in the order in which they appear; and
documents incorporated by reference in this Deed.
Duration of Deed
Initial Deed Period
This Deed begins on the Commencement Date and continues for the duration of the Initial Deed Period unless:
terminated in accordance with clause 8 or clause 39.3; or
extended in accordance with clause 3.2.
Option to extend Initial Deed Period
The Initial Deed Period may be extended by the AEC for the Deed Option Period(s), on the terms and conditions then in effect, by giving a minimum of 30 days' notice to the Service Provider.
Any extension in accordance with this clause 3.2 takes effect from the end of the then current Deed Period.
Standing offer
Standing offer
By this Deed the Service Provider makes an irrevocable standing offer to supply the Services to the AEC at the Fees and on the terms and conditions set out in this Deed.
Service Charges
The Service Charges payable to the Service Provider for performing the Services will be specified in a Work Order and must be calculated using the Fees set out in Schedule 3.
Placing a Work Order
The Service Provider acknowledges that when the AEC requires Services, the AEC will issue the Service Provider with a Work Order.
For the avoidance of doubt, the AEC may issue the Service Provider with a Work Order pursuant to clause 4.3(a), without having issued an RFQ.
Ability to refuse Work Order or respond to an RFQ
On receipt of a Work Order under clause 4.3(a) or an RFQ under clause 4.5, the Service Provider may serve a Refusal Notice, notify the AEC that:
it is unable to perform against the Work Order; or
it is unable to substantively respond to an RFQ, due to a Refusal Reason.
Any Refusal Notice must be issued within the Refusal Period, being within
five Business Days of receipt of a Work Order or an RFQ or any shorter timeframe specified in the Work Order or RFQ.
Request for Quotation
The AEC may, from time to time, issue an RFQ substantially in the form of Schedule 6 prior to issuing a Work Order.
Information in RFQ
An RFQ will include:
the Services and/or Additional Services required;
whether the AEC requires the Services (or any part of the Services) to be performed by particular Personnel of the Service Provider;
the timeframe for delivery of the Services;
subject to clause 4.2, the proposed Fee structure for the Agreement; and
any other specific requirements of the AEC.
Quotations
On receipt of an RFQ, the Service Provider must, within the timeframe specified in the RFQ, provide the AEC with either:
a Refusal Notice stating that the Service Provider will not provide a Quotation due to a Refusal Reason; or
a Quotation by:
completing the appropriate Items in the RFQ and returning it to the AEC;
providing a brief statement that addresses the Evaluation Criteria (if applicable);
if requested by the AEC, providing a curriculum vitae for each of the Personnel proposed to perform the Services; and
if requested by the AEC, providing the contact details for referees.
If the AEC wishes to proceed to obtain the Services and/or Additional Services referred to in the Quotation, the AEC will issue a Work Order.
All Intellectual Property Rights in Quotations provided under clause 4.?(a)(ii) vest in the AEC on submission to the AEC. The AEC grants to the Service Provider a licence to use the Quotation on the same terms that AEC Material is licensed to the Service Provider under clause 18.2.
Agreement
Subject to clause 4.8(b), an Agreement is formed between the AEC and the Service Provider when the AEC issues a Work Order to the Service Provider.
If the Service Provider issues a valid Refusal Notice within the Refusal Period, an Agreement formed under clause 4.8(a) is rescinded.
Completion of Items
To the extent that the parties have not completed Items in a Work Order, unless otherwise stated in the Work Order or this Deed, those Items will be taken to be 'not applicable' for the purpose of this Deed and an Agreement.
Terms and conditions of an Agreement
The terms and conditions of an Agreement are:
the terms and conditions specified in the signed Work Order;
clauses 1, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12 and clauses 10 to 24.3 of this Deed; and
clauses 26 to 43 of this Deed, except that a reference to 'this Deed' in those clauses is taken to be a reference to 'the Agreement' or 'an Agreement' and a reference to 'Deed Period' in those clauses is taken to be a reference to the 'Agreement Period'.
Priority of documents
Subject to clause 4.8, to the extent of any inconsistency between two or more documents which form part of an Agreement, those documents will be interpreted in the following (descending) order of priority:
the Work Order;
this Deed;
the attachments to the Work Order; and
any other document referred to in the Work Order.
No guarantee
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the AEC does not guarantee or make any assurance that any Services or any particular volume of Services will be ordered from the Service Provider under this Deed.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the AEC may obtain the Services from any source it chooses.
Additional Services
Either party may suggest to the other at any time Additional Services to be provided under this Deed.
For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that Additional Services:
do not include anything required to remedy any failure by the Service Provider to provide the Services;
do not, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the parties under this clause, affect the Service Provider's obligations to provide the Services in accordance with this Deed; and
become part of the Services when the AEC agrees to the provision of the Additional Services by issuing a Work Order in accordance with this Deed.
The Service Provider must comply with any request by the AEC for Additional Services on the basis that:
the Additional Services must be agreed between the parties prior to issue of the Work Order; and
the price for the Additional Services must be calculated using the Fees, to the extent applicable.
Not Used
Monitoring progress
Progress meetings
The parties will meet at the times and in the manner set out in the Statement of Requirements and any Work Order (or otherwise as agreed in writing between the parties) to discuss any issues in relation to this Deed or the provision of the Services under any Agreements.
{b)		The Service Provider must ensure that the Service Provider Deed Manager and the AEC must ensure the AEC Deed Manager is reasonably available to attend such meetings and answer any queries relating to the provision of the Services raised by either party.
Reports
The Service Provider must provide the AEC with reports in accordance with this Deed, the Statement of Requirements and any Work Order.
Termination of Deed
Termination for convenience
The AEC may, at any time, by notice, terminate this Deed, including for, or as a result of, a machinery of government change or the establishment of a whole of Australian Government panel or coordinated process for the Services.
On receipt of a notice of termination under clause 8.1(a) the Service Provider must:
stop work as specified in the notice; and
take all available steps to minimise loss resulting from that termination and to protect AEC Material.
If this Deed is terminated under clause 8.1(a), the AEC is liable only for reasonable costs actually incurred by the Service Provider and directly attributable to the termination.
The Service Provider is not entitled to compensation for loss of prospective profits or loss of opportunity.
Termination for default
Without limiting any other rights or remedies the AEC may have against the Service Provider arising out of or in connection with this Deed or any Agreement, the AEC may terminate this Deed effective immediately by giving notice to the Service Provider if:
the Service Provider breaches a material provision of this Deed where that breach is not capable of remedy;
the Service Provider breaches any provision of this Deed and fails to remedy the breach within 14 days after receiving notice requiring it to do so;
a Service Level Termination Trigger event occurs for reasons solely attributable to the Service Provider;
in the opinion of the AEC, a Conflict of Interest exists which would prevent the Service Provider from properly performing its obligations under this Deed; or
subject to the AEC complying with any requirements in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), an event specified in clause 8.2(c) happens to the Service Provider.
Without limitation, for the purposes of clause 8.2(a)(i), each of the following constitutes a breach of a material provision:
a breach of warranty under clause 12.2 (Service Provider warranties);
a failure to comply with clause 12.5(a)(ii) (workplace gender equality and subcontracting);
a failure to comply with clause 16 (Personnel);
a failure to comply with clause 18 (Intellectual Property Rights);
a failure to comply with clause 26 (Confidentiality and privacy);
a failure to comply with clause 27 (Protection of Personal Information);
a failure to comply with clause 30 (Political neutrality, Lobbying Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interest);
a failure to comply with clause 31 (Security);
a failure to comply with clause 34 (Workplace legislation);
a failure to comly with clause 37B (Supplier Code of Conduct); 
a failure to comply with clause 37C (Notification of Significant Events); oe
a failure to comply with clause 38 (Insurance).
The Service Provider must notify the AEC immediately if:
the Service Provider is a corporation and there is any change in the direct or indirect beneficial ownership or control of the Service Provider;
the Service Provider disposes of the whole or any part of its assets, operations or business other than in the ordinary course of business;
the Service Provider ceases to carry on business;
the Service Provider ceases to be able to pay its debts as and when they become due;
the Service Provider is a corporation and enters into liquidation or has a controller or managing controller or liquidator or administrator appointed;
the Service Provider is a natural person and is declared bankrupt or assigns his or her estate for the benefit of creditors; or
the Service Provider is a partnership and any step is taken to dissolve that partnership.
In this clause, controller, managing controller and administrator have the same meanings as in the Corporations Act.
After termination
On termination of this Deed the Service Provider must:
deal with AEC Material as reasonably directed by the AEC; and
return all of the AEC's Confidential Information to the AEC.
Termination does not affect accrued rights
Termination of this Deed does not affect any accrued rights or remedies of a party.
Termination does not affect Agreements
Termination of this Deed does not affect the continuance of any Agreement formed under this Deed.
Transition out
Transition out obligations
The Service Provider must provide the following assistance to the AEC on expiry or termination of this Deed:
cooperating with and providing all reasonable assistance and making available all required information to the AEC in support of the transition out of the Service Provider and the transition to the AEC or any new contractor of the provision of the Services;
doing all acts and things, and executing all documents as are reasonably necessary or desirable, in support of the transition out of the Service Provider;
replying to all and any requests for assistance as expediently as possible to ensure that the Service Provider does not hinder any procurement process or engagement or commencement of any new contractor;
ensuring seamless continuity of Services under each Agreement during the transition out period; and
making Personnel available for discussions with the AEC as may be required. The time, length and subject of these discussions will be at the sole discretion of the AEC, provided that any matter discussed is not considered to reveal any Confidential Information of the Service Provider.
Survival
This clause 9 survives the expiry or termination of this Deed.
Part 2 - Services
10.	Agreement Period
Agreement Period
The Agreement Period begins on the Services Start Date and continues until the Agreement End Date unless:
terminated in accordance with clause 24 or clause 39.3; or
extended in accordance with clause 10.2.
Option to extend Agreement Period
The Agreement Period may be extended by the AEC for the Agreement Option Period(s), on the terms and conditions then in effect, by giving a minimum of 30 day's notice to the Service Provider.
Any extension in accordance with this clause 10.2 takes effect from the end of the then current Agreement Period.
General obligations of the Service Provider
The Service Provider must, at all times:
act reasonably in performing its obligations and exercising its rights under the Agreement; and
diligently perform its obligations under the Agreement.
Provision of the Services
Service obligations
The Service Provider must supply the Services:
to the reasonable satisfaction of the AEC;
with due skill and care and to the best of the Service Provider's knowledge and expertise;
to a high standard and in accordance with the professional standards of conduct applying to the relevant industry;
to meet or exceed the Service Levels;
in accordance with best practice and guidelines, including any specified in the Work Order;
using the Specified Personnel (if any);
so as to keep the AEC fully and regularly informed as to all matters affecting or relating to the Services;
in an efficient, controlled and responsive manner, to a standard that at a minimum complies with this Deed;
continuously seeking to improve the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of the provision of the Services;
using adequate numbers of appropriately qualified Personnel in accordance with this Deed;
in accordance with all applicable Laws;
in accordance with AEC policies and specific requirements set out in the Work Order;
in accordance with any directions in relation to the Services given by the AEC from time to time;
so as to meet the Milestones and other project plan requirements, and where no Milestones or project plan requirements are specified, promptly and without delay;
in conformance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 (available at ) at Level AA as a minimum where the Services involve delivery of content through a web browser;
in accordance with the same standards and obligations that are imposed on Commonwealth Personnel under the WHS Laws;
so as to keep accurate and auditable records relating to the performance of the Services; and
otherwise in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
Service Provider warranties
The Service Provider represents and warrants that:
it has the right to enter into this Deed and the Agreement;
it has all rights, title, licences, interests and property necessary to lawfully perform the Services;
it and its subcontractors and Personnel, including its Specified Personnel, have the necessary experience, skill, knowledge, expertise and competence to perform the Services and (where appropriate) will hold such licences, permits or registrations as are required by Law to perform the Services, and are fit and proper people;
the Services will be fit for the purpose as set out in the Statement of Requirements and Item 6 of the Work Order;
it understands its obligations under the WHS Laws, and warrants that it will comply with all of these obligations for the duration of the Deed Period;
it has and will continue to have and to use, the skills, qualifications, experience and necessary resources to provide the Services in an efficient manner with a high degree of quality and responsiveness to a standard that complies with this Deed;
the Services will be complete and accurate;
any Materials (including Third Party Material) that the Service Provider incorporates in the Agreement Material are new and free from defects in design, performance and workmanship;
it will not, nor will it suffer or permit any third party under its direction or control to negligently introduce into the AEC's ICT Systems or any Deliverables any Harmful Code;
U)		the provision of the Services will not result in the introduction of any Harmful Code into the AEC's ICT Systems;
all work performed under the Agreement will be carried out and completed in a proper and workmanlike manner and in the most cost-effective manner, and using materials suitable for the purpose;
all insurance policies required to be held by the Service Provider under this Deed and the Agreement:
will remain in effect as provided for in this Deed and the Agreement; and
will not be reduced in scope by the Service Provider without the AEC's written consent; and
(m)	it understands its obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth), and warrants that it will comply with all of these obligations for the duration of the Deed Period.
Access to AEC's premises
The AEC must cooperate with the Service Provider by providing access to its premises and facilities as reasonably necessary to enable the Service Provider to provide the Services.
Conduct at AEC's premises
Without limiting clause 31, the Service Provider must, if using or accessing the AEC's premises or facilities, comply with all reasonable directions and procedures relating to occupational health and safety and security in operation at those premises or facilities, whether specifically drawn to the attention of the Service Provider or as might reasonably be inferred from the circumstances.
Subcontracting
The Service Provider must:
not subcontract any aspect of the provision of the Services other than to those entities set out in Item 6 of the Work Order without the prior written approval of the AEC, which will not be unreasonably withheld;
not, in any event, enter into a subcontract under an Agreement with a subcontractor named by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency as not complying with the WGE Act; and
ensure that any subcontractor approved under the Agreement complies with all applicable Laws and:
clause 16.4 (Engagement of Illegal Workers);
clause 17 (Use and protection of AEC Material and ICT Systems);
clause 18 (Intellectual Property Rights);
clause 26 (Confidentiality and privacy);
clause 27 (Protection of Personal Information);
clause 28 (Access to documents);
clause 30 (Political neutrality, Lobbying Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interest);
clause 31 (Security);
clause 33 (Audit and access); and
clause 38 (Insurance).
The Service Provider is fully responsible for the performance of the Services even if the Service Provider subcontracts any aspect of the provision of the Services.
In relation to the Services, the Service Provider:
must, on request by the AEC, provide the AEC with the names of any of the Service Provider's subcontractors;
agrees that the AEC may disclose publicly the names of any of the Service Provider's subcontractors; and
must ensure that any subcontractor agrees that the AEC may disclose the subcontractor's name publicly.
Co-operation with Personnel and contractors
The Service Provider must in the performance of the Services:
fully co-operate with the AEC's Personnel and other contractors; and
use its best efforts to coordinate its activities so as to support and facilitate, in the AEC's best interests, the timely and efficient completion of all work and other activities in relation to the Services to be performed for the AEC by any person.
Monitoring progress
Progress meetings under the Agreement
The parties will meet at the times and in the manner set out in Item 7 of the Work Order (or otherwise as agreed in writing between the parties) to discuss any issues in relation to the provision of the Services. Each party must ensure that their respective Representative is reasonably available to attend such meetings and answer any queries relating to the provision of the Services raised by either party.
Reporting under the Agreement
The Service Provider must provide the AEC with reports in accordance with Item 7 of the Work Order.
Service Levels
Minimum obligation
The Service Provider must meet or exceed the Service Levels.
The Service Provider must provide to the AEC the Service Level Report in the timeframes and containing the information specified in the Service Level Agreement.
Fee Credits
The Fees payable to the Service Provider will be reduced in the manner described in Schedule 4 where the Service Provider fails to meet the Service Levels.
Where this Agreement has ended, any Fee Credits owed by the Service Provider in accordance with the Service Level Agreement will be a debt immediately due and payable by the Service Provider to the AEC.
Acknowledgment
The Service Provider acknowledges that:
the Fee Credits applied under this clause 15 and the Service Level Agreement are not a penalty, but represent a genuine pre-estimate of the expenses and loss which will be incurred by the AEC if the Service Provider does not achieve a Service Level; and
{b)		giving AEC the Fee Credits will be without prejudice to any other rights or remedies that AEC may have against the Service Provider under, or arising from,
this Deed or any Agreement as a result of the Service Provider's failure to meet the Service Levels.
GST treatment of Fee Credits
The Fee Credits are inclusive of GST and, if required under the GST Act, the Service Provider must issue an Adjustment Note in respect of any Fee Credits to the AEC.
Service Level Termination Triggers
In addition to the Fee Credits, if a Service Level Termination Trigger event occurs for reasons solely attributable to the Service Provider, then the AEC may terminate this Deed under clause 8.2(a)(iii) or any Agreement under clause 24.2(a)(iii).
Personnel
Use of Specified Personnel
The Service Provider must:
ensure that the Specified Personnel are of good fame and character, are properly qualified for the tasks they are to perform, and will act, in all the circumstances, in a fit and proper manner while carrying out the work or performing duties under this Deed;
provide the Services or any part of the Services to which their particular expertise relates, with the active involvement of, and using the expertise of, the Specified Personnel; and
ensure that each of the Specified Personnel is aware of and complies with the Service Provider's obligations in providing the Services.
If the Specified Personnel are not available
Where one or more of the Specified Personnel is or will become unable or unwilling to be involved in providing the Services, the Service Provider must notify the AEC immediately.
The Service Provider must:
if requested by the AEC, provide a replacement person of suitable ability and qualifications at no additional charge and at the earliest opportunity; and
obtain the AEC's written consent prior to appointing any such replacement person. The AEC's consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
AEC may request replacement of Personnel
To the extent they are involved in the provision of the Services, the AEC may at any time request the Service Provider to remove any of the Specified Personnel or any of the Service Provider's Personnel.
On receipt of a request under clause 16.3(a), the Service Provider must promptly arrange for the removal of such Personnel and their replacement in accordance with the process outlined in clause 16.2.
Engagement of Illegal Workers prohibited
The Service Provider must ensure that each person engaged by the Service Provider would not, in doing the work for which they are engaged, be an Illegal Worker.
The Service Provider must make compliance by any subcontractors with the provisions of this clause a condition of any subcontract.
The Service Provider must remove, or cause to be removed, any Illegal Worker from any involvement in the provision of the Services.
For the avoidance of doubt, compliance with the Service Provider's obligations under this clause will not constitute a Force Majeure Event, or give rise to an entitlement to claim any delay or otherwise excuse the Service Provider from compliance with its obligations under this Deed or any Agreement.
When requested in writing to do, the Service Provider must provide evidence within 14 days that it has taken all reasonable steps to ensure that it has complied, and is complying with, its obligations under this clause 16.4.
Use and protection of AEC Material and ICT Systems
Use of AEC Material
The AEC will provide to the Service Provider the AEC Material and the Service Provider must ensure that the AEC Material is used strictly in accordance with any conditions or restrictions specified in Item 12 of the Work Order and any direction by the AEC.
Protection against Harmful Code
The Service Provider must take all reasonable steps to ensure that neither it nor any of its Personnel, subcontractors or any other third party under its direction or control introduces any Harmful Code into the AEC's ICT Systems or any Agreement Material.
If any Harmful Code is introduced into the AEC's ICT Systems or any Agreement Material, the Service Provider must:
use all reasonable efforts to promptly report that introduction to the AEC; and
where that Harmful Code is introduced as a result of a breach of clause 17.2(a), it must:
take all necessary action to eliminate the Harmful Code; and
promptly, at its own cost, repair any harm or destruction caused by that Harmful Code.
Protection of Sensitive Election Material
This clause applies where the Services involve the movement or handling of Sensitive Election Material.
The security, integrity and accountability of Sensitive Election Material must be preserved at all times, including during transit and storage.
The Service Provider must implement and maintain the highest levels of security for Sensitive Election Material at all times and, subject to clause 17.3(d), Sensitive Election Material must never be left unattended.
In the event the Service Provider or its subcontractor stores any Sensitive Election Material, that Sensitive Election Material must be stored in secure premises, which have the following (or equivalent) safety and security measures in place:
appropriate fire detection and suppression controls to protect Sensitive Election Material;
recorded CCTV with line of sight to all Sensitive Election Material;
back to base security alarm system;
controlled access to the secure premises, using, at a minimum, an access register; and
the premises must be lockable and the Sensitive Election Material stored separately to any other material.
In the event that it is unclear to the Service Provider if the Material the subject of the Services is Sensitive Election Material or not (without opening the contents of the package), the Service Provider must treat the Material as if it contained Sensitive Election Material.
The AEC may, at its sole discretion, direct AEC Personnel to conduct an on-site inspection of the Service Provider's (or its subcontractors') premises to ensure compliance with these minimum security standards. The AEC may conduct such an inspection at any time prior to the commencement of the Services and at any other time deemed necessary by the AEC.
The Service Provider must immediately notify the AEC of any identified security issues (including any Security Incident) and remedy those issues to the satisfaction of the AEC, at the Service Provider's cost and in accordance with the applicable Service Level(s).
Intellectual Property Rights
Pre-existing Material of the Service Provider
This clause does not affect the ownership of the Intellectual Property Rights in any Pre-existing Material of the Service Provider.
The Service Provider grants to the AEC, a perpetual, irrevocable, world-wide, royalty free, non-exclusive licence (including the right to novate or assign the licence, and to sublicense) to use, reproduce, adapt, modify and communicate the Pre-existing Material of the Service Provider for the AEC's purposes.
Licence of AEC Material to Service Provider
To the extent that the Service Provider needs to use any of the AEC Material for the purpose of performing its obligations under an Agreement, the AEC grants to the Service
Provider, subject to any direction given by the AEC, a royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable licence to use, reproduce, adapt, modify and communicate the AEC Material solely for the purpose of providing the Services.
Third Party Material
The Service Provider must provide Third Party Material necessary or appropriate to supply the Services and any Deliverables.
Before incorporating any Third Party Material into the Agreement Material the Service Provider must procure for the AEC perpetual licences enabling the AEC to use the Third Party Material:
to the extent necessary to obtain the full benefit of the Services; and
from the expiry or termination of this Agreement, to maintain the Deliverables or engage a third party to maintain the Deliverables.
If the Service Provider cannot obtain the licences as described in clause 18.1(b), the Service Provider must:
notify the AEC of the best alternative licence terms for that Third Party Material and not use that Third Party Material unless the AEC consents to those terms; and
if the AEC does not consent under clause 18.3(c)(i), notify the AEC of any comparable Third Party Material and comply with its obligations under this clause 18.3 in respect of comparable Third Party Material.
AEC ownership of Intellectual Property Rights in Agreement Material
All Intellectual Property Rights in Agreement Material vest in the AEC on creation.
The AEC may, at its discretion, make any and all Agreement Material available for use by the public under an Open Access Licence.
Licence of Agreement Material to the Service Provider
To the extent that the Service Provider needs to use any Agreement Material for the purpose of performing its obligations under an Agreement, the AEC grants to the Service Provider, subject to any direction given by the AEC, a royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable licence to use, reproduce, adapt, modify and communicate such Material solely for the purpose of providing the Services.
Where the Service Provider wishes to use any Agreement Material otherwise than for the purpose of providing the Services, it may only do so:
with express written permission from the AEC; and
at the Service Provider's own cost.
Warranty
The Service Provider warrants that:
the Warranted Materials and the AEC's use of the Warranted Materials will not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of any person;
it has the necessary rights to vest the Intellectual Property Rights and grant the licences as provided for in this clause 18; and
the licences conferred under clauses 18.1(b) and 18.3(b) above are sufficient to allow the AEC to make any and all Agreement Material available for use by the public under an Open Access Licence, should it elect, at its absolute discretion, to do so.
Remedy for breach of warranty
If someone claims, or the AEC reasonably believes that someone is likely to claim, that all or part of the Warranted Materials infringe their Intellectual Property Rights, the Service Provider must, in addition to the indemnity under clause 23 and to any other rights that the AEC may have against it, promptly, at the Service Provider's expense:
use its best efforts to secure the rights for the AEC to continue to use the affected Warranted Materials free of any claim or liability for infringement; or
replace or modify the affected Warranted Materials so that the Warranted Materials or the use of them does not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of any other person without any degradation of the performance or quality of the affected Warranted Materials.
Delivery of Agreement Material
On the expiry or termination of this Agreement or on such earlier date as may be specified by the AEC, the Service Provider must deliver to the AEC Deed Manager all Agreement Material.
Moral Rights
Obtaining consents
To the extent permitted by applicable Laws and for the benefit of the AEC, the Service Provider must:
give, where the Service Provider is an individual;
use its best endeavours to ensure that each of the Personnel used by the Service Provider in the production or creation of Agreement Material gives; and
use its best endeavours to ensure that any holder of Moral Rights in Third Party Material included in Agreement Material gives,
in a form acceptable to the AEC, genuine consent in writing to the use of Agreement Material for the Specified Acts, even if such use would otherwise be an infringement of its or their Moral Rights.
Risk management
Responsibility for risk management
The Service Provider:
is responsible for the identification, control, mitigation and management of risks associated with the Services, this Deed and any Agreement; and
in particular, must:
identify and properly categorise in terms of severity all risks; and
comply at all times with AS/NZS 4360:2004 'Risk Management', as updated from time to time.
Subject to clause 20.1(c), where a party identifies a risk or change in an existing risk which may have a significant effect on the performance of this Deed or any Agreement, the party must promptly notify the other party in writing of the risk as well as its strategy to manage the risk.
The AEC is not required to disclose information which has been provided to it by the Commonwealth or another Agency and which is subject to express or implied restrictions on disclosure.
Risk Management Plan
Except where otherwise agreed by the AEC, the Service Provider must:
where no Risk Management Plan is included in Schedule 10 to this Deed, within 20 Business Days after the Commencement Date provide a draft Risk Management Plan; and
if there is a Risk Management Plan included in Schedule 10 to this Deed, at the request of either party review, update, amend and expand, as the
request requires, the Risk Management Plan and provide a revised draft Risk Management Plan,
to the AEC for approval.
The draft Risk Management Plan must:
specify identified risks;
identify who is better placed to manage each risk;
specify the measures to be taken to mitigate the risk by the party responsible for managing the risk; and
The AEC will notify the Service Provider in writing within 20 Business Days after receipt of the draft Risk Management Plan:
whether the draft Risk Management Plan is approved; or
specify amendments that it requires to be made to the draft Risk Management Plan.
The Service Provider must:
finalise the draft Risk Management Plan to produce the Risk Management Plan, if it is approved by the AEC; or
incorporate all amendments required by the AEC to be made to the draft Risk Management Plan unless the Service Provider can provide a reasonable explanation to the AEC for why it should not do so within five Business Days of receipt of the notification from AEC.
The parties will agree to amend this Deed to incorporate any approved Risk Management Plan in Schedule 10.
The Service Provider must keep the Risk Management Plan up to date, with any amendments subject to agreement by the AEC in accordance with this clause 20.2.
Compliance with Risk Management Plan
The Service Provider must manage risks in relation to the performance of its obligations under this Deed and any Agreement in accordance with the Risk Management Plan as amended from time to time.
The Service Provider must report to the AEC, as required, on:
the risks arising in relation to this Deed and any Agreement;
the management of those risks; and
the Service Provider's compliance with the Risk Management Plan.
Payment
Obligation to pay charges
Subject to this clause 21 and the Services meeting Agreement requirements including the Service Levels, the AEC must pay to the Service Provider the Service Charges as set out in Item 14 of the Work Order.
Subject to clauses 21.3 and 21.7, the AEC is under no obligation to pay any amount in excess of the Service Charges.
Service Provider to provide invoice
The Service Provider must provide a correctly rendered invoice to the AEC for the Service Charges, minus any applicable Fee Credits, in accordance with the requirements specified in Schedule 3 and the Service Level Agreement.
Due date for payment
The AEC will pay the Service Provider within 20 days after receipt of a correctly rendered invoice. If this period ends on a day that is not a Business Day, payment is due on the next Business Day.
Interest for late payment
This clause 21.4 only applies where:
the initial value of the Agreement (excluding any options, extensions, renewals or other mechanisms that may be executed over the life of the Agreement) is less than $1 million (GST inclusive); and
the amount of the interest payable exceeds $100.
For payments made by the AEC more than 20 days after the amount became due and payable, the AEC must pay interest accrued on the payment.
Interest payable under this clause 21.4 will be simple interest on the unpaid amount calculated in respect of each day from the day after the amount was due and payable, up to and including the day that the AEC effects payment as represented by the following formula:
SI	= UA	x	GIC  x	D
where:
SI	= the simple interest amount; UA = the unpaid amount;
GIC = the general interest charge rate determined under section 8AAD of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) on the day payment is due, expressed as a decimal rate per day; and
Note: See the ATO webpage at: https://www.ato.gov.au/tax-rates-and-codes/general-interest-charge-rates.
D	= the number of days from the day after the amount was due and payable up to and including the day that the AEC makes the payment.
Correct rendering of invoices
An invoice is correctly rendered if:
it is correctly addressed and calculated in accordance with the Agreement;
it relates only to supplies that have been delivered to the AEC in accordance with the Agreement; and
it is a valid tax invoice in accordance with the GST Act.
Incorrect invoices, under/over payment
If an invoice is found to have been rendered incorrectly after payment, any underpayment or overpayment will be recoverable by or from the Service Provider, as the case may be, and, without limiting recourse to other available means, may be offset against any amount subsequently due by the AEC to the Service Provider under the Agreement.
Expenses
The Service Provider may only claim expenses as set out in Schedule 3 and the Work Order.
Taxes
The Service Provider must pay:
all stamp duty (including penalties and interest) assessed or payable in respect of this Deed and the Agreement and the undertaking of the Services; and
subject to clause 22, all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the performance of this Deed and the Agreement.
GST
Interpretation
In this clause 22, a word or expression defined in the GST Act has the meaning given to it in that Act.
GST gross up
If a party (Supplier) makes a supply under or in connection with the Agreement in respect of which GST is payable, the recipient of the supply (Recipient) must pay to the Supplier an additional amount equal to the GST payable on the supply (GST Amount).
Reimbursements
If a party must reimburse or indemnify another party for a Loss, the amount to be reimbursed or indemnified is first reduced by any input tax credit the other party is entitled to for the Loss and then increased in accordance with clause 22.2.
Exclusion of GST from calculations
If a payment is calculated by reference to or as a specified percentage of another amount or revenue stream, that payment will be calculated by reference to or as a specified percentage of the amount or revenue stream exclusive of GST.
Adjustments
If the GST payable by a Supplier on any supply made under or in connection with the Agreement varies from the GST Amount paid or payable by the Recipient under clause 22.2 such that a further amount of GST is payable in relation to the supply or a refund or credit of GST is obtained in relation to the supply, then the Supplier will provide a corresponding refund or credit to, or will be entitled to receive the amount of that variation from, the Recipient.
Any payment, credit or refund under this clause is deemed to be a payment, credit or refund of the GST Amount payable under clause 22.2.
If an adjustment event occurs in relation to a supply, the Supplier must issue an Adjustment Note to the Recipient in relation to that supply within 14 days after becoming aware of the adjustment.
Tax invoice
A party need not make a payment for a taxable supply made under or in connection with the Agreement until it receives a tax invoice for the supply to which the payment relates.
Indemnity
Indemnity
The Service Provider indemnifies at all times, and holds harmless the AEC (including its Personnel) against, all:
Losses incurred by the AEC in procuring goods and services similar to the Services from another supplier if this Deed or any Agreement is terminated by the AEC for default of the Service Provider;
Losses suffered or incurred by the AEC, including as the result of any claim made in relation to:
loss of or damage to third party property; 
a breach of the privacy of an individual to which clause 27.4 applies; or
the injury, illness or death of a third party;
loss of or damage to the AEC's property; or
Losses suffered or incurred by the AEC in dealing with any claim against the AEC, including legal costs and expenses on a solicitor/ own client basis and includes for the avoidance of doubt, the costs of time spent, resources used, or disbursements paid by the AEC,
arising from:
any act or omission by the Service Provider (including by any of its Personnel or subcontractors) in connection with this Deed or the Agreement;
any breach by the Service Provider (including by any of its Personnel or subcontractors) of its obligations or warranties under this Deed or the Agreement;
any use or disclosure by the Service Provider (including by its Personnel or subcontractors) of Personal Information or Confidential Information (or both, as the case may be) held or controlled in connection with this Agreement; or
the use by the AEC of Agreement Material, including the Intellectual Property Rights and Moral Rights comprised in Agreement Material.
Proportional reduction of liability
The liability of a party (Party A) for any Losses incurred by another party (Party 8) will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent act or omission of Party B (or of its subcontractors or Personnel) contributed to those Losses, regardless of whether legal proceedings are brought by Party A for negligence or breach of contract.
AEC's right to be indemnified is additional to other rights
The AEC's right to be indemnified under clause 23.1 is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power, or remedy provided by Law, but the AEC is not entitled to be compensated in excess of the amount of the relevant Loss.
Termination of Agreement
Termination and reduction for convenience
The AEC may, at any time, by notice, terminate the Agreement or reduce the scope of the Services, including for, or as a result of, a machinery of government change or the
establishment of a whole of Australian Government panel or coordinated process for the Services.
Termination for default
Without limiting any other rights or remedies the AEC may have against the Service Provider arising out of or in connection with the Agreement, the AEC may terminate the Agreement or reduce the scope of the Services effective immediately by giving notice to the Service Provider if:
the Service Provider breaches a material provision of the Agreement where that breach is not capable of remedy;
the Service Provider breaches any provision of the Agreement and fails to remedy the breach within 14 days after receiving notice requiring it to do so;
a Service Level Termination Trigger event occurs for reasons solely attributable to the Service Provider;
in the opinion of the AEC, a Conflict of Interest exists which would prevent the Service Provider from properly performing its obligations under the Agreement; or
subject to the AEC complying with any requirements in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), an event specified in clause 24.2(c) happens to the Service Provider.
Without limitation, for the purposes of clause 24.2 (a)(i), each of the following constitutes a breach of a material provision:
a breach of warranty under clause 12.2 (Service Provider warranties);
a failure to comply with clause 12.5(a)(ii) (workplace gender equality and subcontracting);
a failure to comply with clause 16 (Personnel);
a failure to comply with clause 18 (Intellectual Property Rights);
a failure to comply with clause 26 (Confidentiality and privacy);
a failure to comply with clause 27 (Protection of Personal Information);
a failure to comply with clause 30 (Political neutrality, Lobbying Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interest);
a failure to comply with clause 31 (Security);
a failure to comply with clause 34 (Workplace legislation);
any material failure by the Service Provider to:
implement the Indigenous Participation Plan in accordance with clause 35; or
comply with a direction issued by the AEC Deed Manager under clause 35.3(e);
a failure to comply with clause 37B (Supplier Code of Conduct);
a failure to comply with clause 37C (Notification of Significant Events); or
a failure to comply with clause 38 (Insurance).
The Service Provider must notify the AEC immediately if:
the Service Provider is a corporation and there is any change in the direct or indirect beneficial ownership or control of the Service Provider;
the Service Provider disposes of the whole or any part of its assets, operations or business other than in the ordinary course of business;
the Service Provider ceases to carry on business;
the Service Provider ceases to be able to pay its debts as they become due;
the Service Provider being a company enters into liquidation or has a controller or managing controller or liquidator or administrator appointed;
the Service Provider being a natural person is declared bankrupt or assigns his or her estate for the benefit of creditors; or
where the Service Provider is a partnership, any step is taken to dissolve that partnership.
In this clause, controller, managing controller and administrator have the same meanings as in the Corporations Act.
Consequences of termination generally
On receipt of a notice of termination or reduction the Service Provider must:
stop work as specified in the notice;
take all available steps to minimise Loss resulting from that termination and to protect AEC Material and Agreement Material;
deal with Agreement Material in accordance with clause 18.8; and
repay on demand any advance payments made by the AEC for Services not provided by the effective termination date.
Consequences of termination for convenience
If the Agreement is terminated under clause 24.1, the AEC is liable only for:
payments under clause 21 for Services rendered in accordance with the Agreement before the effective date of termination, minus any applicable Fee Credits; and
reasonable costs actually incurred by the Service Provider and directly attributable to the termination.
The AEC is not liable to pay compensation under clause 24.4(a)(ii) for an amount which would, in addition to any amounts paid or due, or becoming due, to the Service Provider under the Agreement, exceed the total Fees payable under the Agreement.
The Service Provider is not entitled to compensation for loss of prospective profits or loss of opportunity.
Consequences of scope reduction
If the scope of the Services is reduced:
the AEC's liability to pay the Fees or to provide AEC Material abates in accordance with the reduction in the Services; and
the Service Provider must comply with the AEC's directions about the Services remaining in scope and take all available steps to minimise Loss resulting from the reduction in scope.
Deemed termination
If a purported termination by the AEC under clause 24.1 is determined by a competent authority to be invalid for any reason, then that termination will be deemed to be a termination under clause 24.2, which has effect from the date of the notice of termination referred to in clause 24.1.
Termination does not affect accrued rights
Termination of the Agreement does not affect any accrued rights or remedies of a party.
Survival
The following clauses survive the expiry or termination of the Agreement:
clause 12.5 (Subcontracting);
clause 15.2(b) (Fee Credits);
clause 18 (Intellectual Property Rights);
clause 19 (Moral Rights);
clause 21.6 (Incorrect invoices, under/over payment);
clause 22 (GST);
clause 23 (Indemnity);
clause 24.3 (Consequences of termination generally);
clause 24.4 (Consequences of termination for convenience);
clause 24.7 (Termination does not affect accrued rights); and
Part 3 - General requirements
Confidentiality and privacy
Prohibition on disclosure
Subject to clause 26.4:
the Service Provider must not, without the prior written consent of the AEC, disclose any AEC Confidential Information to a third party; and
the AEC must not, without the prior written consent of the Service Provider, disclose any Service Provider Confidential Information to a third party.
Conditions of approval
In giving written consent to use or disclose AEC Confidential Information, the AEC may impose reasonable conditions as it thinks fit.
The Service Provider must comply with any term or condition imposed by the AEC under this clause 26.2.
Advisers and third parties
The AEC may at any time require the Service Provider to arrange for:
its Advisers;
its Personnel engaged in the performance of the Services (including Specified Personnel); or
any other third party, to whom AEC Confidential Information may be disclosed pursuant to clauses 26.4(a), (b) or (c),
to give a written undertaking relating to the use and non-disclosure of the AEC's Confidential Information substantially in the form set out in Schedule 9.
Exceptions to obligations
The obligations on each party under clause 26.1 will not be taken to have been breached to the extent that Confidential Information of the other party:
is disclosed by a party to its Advisers or employees solely in order to comply with obligations, or to exercise rights, under this Deed;
is disclosed to a party's internal management Personnel, solely to enable effective management or auditing of activities related to this Deed;
is disclosed to a subcontractor or related entity for the purposes of performing its obligations under this Deed;
is disclosed by the AEC to the responsible Minister;
(e.)
is disclosed by the AEC, in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of the Commonwealth;
is shared by the AEC within the Commonwealth, or with another Agency, where this serves the Commonwealth's legitimate interests, such as for policy development, research, compliance, regulatory and other non-commercial purposes;
is disclosed by the AEC to the Auditor General, Ombudsman, Privacy Commissioner, Information Commissioner or Freedom of Information Commissioner or their delegates;
is required by Law, the rules of a stock exchange or this Deed to be disclosed; or
is in the public domain otherwise than due to a breach of this Deed.
Obligation on disclosure
Where a party discloses Confidential Information of the other party to another person:
(a)  pursuant to clauses 26.4(a), (b), (c) or (f), the disclosing party must:
notify the receiving person that the information is Confidential Information; and
not provide the information unless the receiving person agrees to keep the information confidential, including in the case of AEC Confidential Information, the receiving person giving the AEC a legally binding undertaking to that effect substantially in the form set out in Schedule 9; or
(b)	pursuant to clauses 26.4(d) or (e), the disclosing party must notify the receiving party that the information is Confidential Information of the other party.
Additional confidential information
The parties may agree in writing after the Commencement Date that certain additional information is to constitute Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed (Additional Confidential Information).
This Additional Confidential Information is incorporated into, and becomes part of the Confidential Information under this Deed, on the date both parties agree in writing under clause 26.6(a).
Period of confidentiality
The obligations under this clause 26 continue, notwithstanding the expiry or termination of this Deed:
in relation to an item of information described in Schedule 5 or the Work Order, for the period set out in Schedule 5 or the Work Order in respect of that item; and
in relation to any Additional Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed, for the period agreed by the parties in writing in respect of that information.
No reduction in privacy obligations
Nothing in this Deed derogates from any obligation which either party may have under the Privacy Act as amended from time to time, in relation to the protection of Personal
Information or information that is protected by the Census and Statistics Act 1905 (Cth), or any other Law requiring secrecy or confidentiality in dealing with information.
Return of information
Subject to clause 26.9(b), at the AEC's request or on the expiry or termination of this Deed, the Service Provider must promptly return all of the AEC's physical and written records containing AEC Confidential Information, and all documentation relating to that AEC Confidential Information (including copies), to the AEC in a form reasonably requested by the AEC.
If requested by the AEC, the Service Provider must destroy such items in the manner specified by the AEC and promptly certify to the AEC in writing that it has done so.
Confidential provisions
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the AEC may disclose the provisions of this Deed.
Protection of Personal Information
Application of this clause
This clause 27 applies only where the Service Provider deals with Personal Information when, and for the purposes of, providing Services under this Deed.
Obligations
The Service Provider acknowledges that it is a 'contracted service provider' within the meaning of section 6 of the Privacy Act, and must in respect of the provision of Services under this Deed:
use or disclose Personal Information obtained during the course of providing Services under this Deed, only for the purposes of this Deed;
not to do any act or engage in any practice that would breach an Australian Privacy Principle (APP), which if done or engaged in by an Agency, would be a breach of that APP;
carry out and discharge the obligations contained in the APPs as if it were an Agency under the Privacy Act;
not take or allow Personal Information to be taken outside of Australia in a manner inconsistent with clause 31.7(c);
if requested by the AEC to do so, arrange for all Personnel of the Service Provider to whom Personal Information is to be disclosed to give a written undertaking substantially in the form set out in Schedule 9;
notify individuals whose Personal Information the Service Provider holds, that complaints about acts or practices of the Service Provider may be investigated by the Privacy Commissioner, Information Commissioner and / or Freedom of Information Commissioner who has power to award compensation against the Service Provider in appropriate circumstances;
immediately notify the AEC if the Service Provider becomes aware of a breach or possible breach of any of the obligations contained, or referred to, in this clause 27, whether by the Service Provider or any subcontractor;
comply with any directions, guidelines, determinations or recommendations of the Privacy Commissioner, Information Commissioner and / or Freedom of Information Commissioner, to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the requirements of this clause 27; and
ensure that any Personnel of the Service Provider who is required to deal with Personal Information for the purposes of this Deed is made aware of the obligations of the Service Provider set out in this clause 27.
Without derogating from any other obligations of the Service Provider under Law or otherwise, the Service Provider must assist the AEC to enable any person, on request, to ascertain in respect of that person's Personal Information:
whether the Service Provider has possession or control of any records that contain such Personal Information;
the nature of the information;
the main purposes for which that person's Personal Information is used by the Service Provider; and
the steps that the person should take if the person wishes to obtain access to the Personal Information.
Subcontracts
The Service Provider must ensure that any subcontract entered into for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Deed contains provisions to ensure that the subcontractor has the same awareness and obligations as the Service Provider has under this clause 27, including this requirement in relation to subcontracts.
Indemnity
Where liability has not been apportioned by the Privacy Commissioner, the Service Provider indemnifies the AEC in respect of any Loss suffered or incurred by the AEC which arises directly or indirectly from a breach of any of the obligations of the Service Provider under this clause 27, or a subcontractor under the subcontract provisions referred to in clause 27.2(a).
Access to documents
Application of clause
This clause 28 only applies if the Services involve the provision of services by the Service Provider (but not goods or financial assistance grants) for or on behalf of the AEC to a person who is not the Commonwealth or an Agency.
Access to security classified information
Where the Service Provider and its Personnel (including Specified Personnel) may have access to security classified information of the AEC, the Service Provider and its Personnel (including Specified Personnel) involved in providing the Services must complete, to the AEC's satisfaction, the Security Awareness Training Program, prior to accessing security classified information.
Provision of documents
Where the AEC has received a request for access to a document created by, or in the possession of, the Service Provider or any subcontractor that relates to the performance of this Deed (and not to the entry into this Deed), the AEC may at any time by written notice require the Service Provider to provide the document to the AEC and the Service Provider must, at no additional cost to the AEC, promptly comply with the notice.
The Service Provider must include in any subcontract relating to the performance of this Deed provisions that will enable the Service Provider to comply with its obligations under this clause 28.
In this clause, document has the same meaning as it has in the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth).
Public interest disclosure
Application
The Service Provider acknowledges that:
the AEC is an agency that is subject to the Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013
(Cth) (the PID Act);
this Deed may be a 'Commonwealth contract', the Service Provider and its subcontractors may be a 'contracted Contractor' and any officers and employees of the Service Provider or its subcontractors may be a 'public official', within the meaning of the PID Act; and
conduct engaged in by the Service Provider or any subcontractor in relation to entering into, or giving effect to this Deed, may be 'disclosable conduct' under the PID Act.
Compliance
The parties must promptly comply with their obligations under the PID Act and the AEC's public interest disclosure policies, at no additional cost to one another, and the Service Provider must ensure that all of its subcontractors also comply with this clause 29 and the PID Act.
Political neutrality, Lobbying Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interest
Political neutrality of the AEC
The Service Provider must:
respect the strict political neutrality of the AEC;
not jeopardise the AEC's political neutrality by any act or omission; and
not associate the AEC in any way with any political activity that they undertake.
Political neutrality of Service Provider Personnel
Where the Service Provider supplies Service Provider Personnel to provide any of the Services, the AEC in its absolute discretion may:
require the Service Provider to ensure that those Service Provider Personnel sign a declaration of political neutrality substantially in the form set out in Schedule 9 to ensure that such Personnel are aware of the requirement in clause 30.1; and
request the removal of such Service Provider Personnel who do not sign that declaration of political neutrality from provision of the Services, in accordance with this Deed.
Lobbying Code of Conduct
The Service Provider:
acknowledges that a person engaged as a contractor by the AEC will be a 'government representative' for the purposes of the Lobbying Code of Conduct; and
must, and must ensure that its subcontractors, comply with:
the Lobbying Code of Conduct; and
the Australian Public Service Commission (APSC) Circular 2008/4, Requirements relating to the Lobbying Code of Conduct and post separation contact with Government,
where their activities fall within the scope of the Lobbying Code of Conduct.
Conflict of Interest warranty
The Service Provider warrants that, to the best of its knowledge after making diligent inquiry, at the date of signing this Deed and at the formation of each Agreement, no Conflict of Interest exists or is likely to arise in the performance of its obligations under this Deed.
Notification of a Conflict of Interest
If, during the performance of the Services a Conflict of Interest arises, or appears likely to arise, the Service Provider must:
notify the AEC immediately in writing;
make full disclosure of all relevant information relating to the Conflict of Interest and setting out the steps the Service Provider proposes to take to resolve or otherwise deal with the Conflict of Interest; and
take such steps as the AEC requires to resolve or otherwise deal with the Conflict of Interest.
Security
Compliance with Australian Government and AEC requirements
The Service Provider must, and must ensure that its subcontractors and Personnel comply with:
all relevant security and other requirements specified in the Protective Security Policy Framework; and
any other security procedures or requirements notified, in writing, by the AEC to the Service Provider.
The Service Provider must comply with such a security procedure or requirement, from the date specified in the notice, or if none is specified, within five Business Days of receipt of the notice.
31A	Cyber security
Without limiting the requirements in a Statement of Requirements, the Service Provider must take reasonable and prudent steps consistent with industry best practice to reduce the risk of Cyber Attack on Service Provider IT Systems.
At the AEC's written request, the Service Provider must promptly provide details of the Service Provider's security measures in place to reduce the risk of Cyber Attack on Service Provider’s IT Systems.
Security clearance and Police Checks
The AEC may, from time to time, notify the Service Provider of the level of security or access clearance applicable to the Service Provider's Personnel, and the date from which, or the period during which, that clearance will be effective and the Service Provider must comply with and ensure its Personnel act in accordance with that notice.
The Service Provider must, if requested by the AEC, ensure that any Personnel (including Specified Personnel) engaged by or on behalf of the Service Provider meets all necessary security assessments and standards required by the AEC including:
an identity check;
a national police clearance check or equivalent;
signing any forms notified to the Service Provider by the AEC from time to time;
holding Commonwealth security clearances to the level requested by the AEC in accordance with the Protective Security Policy Framework, or as otherwise required by the AEC;
attending and completing an AEC security awareness course prior to or as soon as possible after the Commencement Date at the Service Provider's cost; and
complying with any other security awareness requirements reasonably requested by the AEC.
The Service Provider must prevent Personnel (including Specified Personnel) whose security clearances are revoked, lapse or who no longer require access, from:
having access to AEC premises and AEC Data; and
providing the Services.
The Service Provider must report to the AEC any incidental or accidental contact with security classified information by Personnel (including Specified Personnel) as soon as possible but not less than 5 Business Days from the incidental or accidental contact with the security classified information.
The Service Provider is responsible for all costs and expenses associated with obtaining security clearances.
Storage of security classified information
This clause 31.2(a) applies where the Service Provider will handle or store security classified information of the AEC outside the AEC's premises and/or systems.
The Service Provider must ensure that the premises and facilities used to handle or store security classified information of the AEC meet the appropriate security level as determined by the AEC.
The Service Provider must have the appropriate systems able to meet designated information security standards for the electronic processing, storage, transmission and disposal of official information.
The Service Provider bears all the costs and expenses associated with ensuring that the storage of security classified information meets the appropriate security level as determined by the AEC.
Security Incidents
The Service Provider must report to the AEC any actual or suspected Security Incident as soon as possible but no less than five Business Days from the actual or suspected Security Incident.
The Service Provider must report any incidents or breaches of information and / or communications technology security, not involving AEC Material to the Australian Cyber Security Centre as soon as possible but not less than five Business Days from the incident or breach.
Highest level of security classified information
The Service Provider may have access to security classified information up to the level specified in Item 9 of the Deed Details. If requested by the AEC, the Service Provider must provide evidence that the Specified Personnel have the requisite security clearances to access this information within the timeframe specified in the request.
Essential protective security requirements
The Service Provider must comply with the essential protective security requirements specified in Item 10 of the Deed Details.
Restrictions on use of AEC Data
AEC Data is and remains the property of the AEC.
The Service Provider must not, and must ensure that its subcontractors and Personnel do not:
use AEC Data for any purpose other than directly in relation to the provision of the Services to the AEC;
purport to sell, let for hire, assign rights in or otherwise dispose of any AEC Data;
make any AEC Data available to any third party other than a subcontractor and then only to the extent necessary to enable the subcontractor to perform its part of this Deed or the applicable Work Order; 
commercially or otherwise exploit AEC Data; or
alter AEC Data in any way, other than for the purposes of performing the Services.
The Service Provider must not, and must ensure that its subcontractors and Personnel do not:
remove AEC Data or allow AEC Data to be removed from the AEC's premises; or
take AEC Data transfer, transmit or disclose AEC Data or allow AEC Data to be taken, transferred, transmitted, accessed or disclosed outside of Australia,
without the AEC's prior written consent. 
(d)	The prohibition in clause 31.7(c) applies in respect of taking, transferring, transmitting, accessing or otherwise disclosing AEC Data outside of Australia by the Service Provider:
(i)	within the Contractor's own organisation; and 
(ii)	to any third party, including to any Subcontractor
Where such consent is granted, offshore storage of AEC Data (including in any virtual environment such as the cloud) must be in a manner consistent with all applicable Commonwealth policies including the Information Security Manual and the Protective Security Policy Framework.
Security training
The Service Provider must ensure that, before any of the Service Provider Personnel or subcontractors have access to or are permitted to use AEC Data in any way, they have received any training required by the AEC in relation to the handling and use of that AEC Data.
The Service Provider must bear the cost of any training under clause 31.8(a).
Safeguarding AEC Data
The Service Provider must and must ensure that its Personnel establish and maintain all appropriate physical, technical and organisational safeguards to protect AEC Data in its possession or control against the destruction, unauthorised disclosure, access, loss, damage, processing, erasure, transfer, use, modification, misuse or alteration that:
are no less rigorous than those notified by the AEC from time to time and will be no less rigorous than the safeguards that can be reasonably expected according to industry best practice; and
comply with all Law and any procedures or requirements specified by the AEC from time to time.  
The Service Provider agrees that the AEC and its internal and external auditors, inspectors and such other representatives as the AEC may designate from time to time may, at any time, with reasonable notice, conduct a security audit of the Service Provider's and its subcontractors’ compliance with this clause 31, including the right to undertake a security risk assessment, threat risk assessment or privacy impact assessment.
The Service Provider must: 
	(i)	maintain daily backups of AEC Data in accordance with industry best practice and in such a manner that allows a retrieval of AEC Data to be no older than 24 hours before any issue first affected such AEC Data; and
	(ii)	make reasonable efforts to identify and advise the AEC in writing of, as soon as reasonably practicable, any issues affecting AEC Data which may give rise to a claim for indemnity under clause 23 of this Deed.    
Nothing in this clause 31 is intended to limit the Service Provider's obligations contemplated by this Deed.
Delete, destroy or return of AEC Data
Immediately upon termination or expiry of this Deed, the Service Provider must, and must ensure its Subcontractors:
deliver to the AEC all AEC Data and storage media; and
erase or destroy all electronic records containing AEC Data, which are in the possession, power or control of the Service Provider or of any person to whom the Service Provider has given access.
Upon the AEC’s written request, the Service Provider must certify that deletion or destruction of AEC Data has taken place.
The Service Provider must and must ensure that its subcontractors, perform such deletion or destruction in an appropriate and auditable manner that ensures that AEC Data cannot be re-created, accessed or read.
31.11	Subcontracts
(a)    The Service Provider must ensure that any subcontract entered into for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Deed imposes on the subcontractor the same obligations as the Service Provider has under this clause 31, including the requirement in relation to subcontracts.
Books and records
Service Provider to keep books and records
The Service Provider must:
keep and require its subcontractors to keep comprehensive, accurate and adequate books and records in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards, in sufficient detail to enable the amounts payable by the AEC under this Deed to be determined; and
retain and require its subcontractors to retain all books and records relating to the Services for a period of seven years after the expiry or termination of this Deed or such longer period as may be required by Law.
Costs
The Service Provider must bear its own costs of complying with this clause 32.
Audit and access
Right to conduct audits
The AEC or a representative may conduct audits relevant to the performance of the Service Provider's obligations under this Deed. Audits may be conducted of:
the Service Provider's premises, operational practices and procedures as they relate to this Deed, including security procedures;
the accuracy of the Service Provider's invoices and reports in relation to the provision of the Services under this Deed;
the Service Provider's compliance with its confidentiality, privacy and security obligations under this Deed;
Material (including books and records) in the possession of the Service Provider relevant to the Services or this Deed; and
any other matters determined by the AEC to be relevant to the Services or this Deed.
Access by the AEC
The AEC may, at reasonable times and on giving reasonable notice to the Service Provider:
access the premises of the Service Provider to the extent relevant to the performance of this Deed;
require the provision by the Service Provider and its Personnel or subcontractors of records and information in a data format and storage medium accessible by the AEC by use of the AEC's existing computer hardware and software;
inspect and copy any Material, however stored, in the custody or under the control of the Service Provider and its Personnel or subcontractors; and
require assistance in respect of any inquiry into or concerning the Services or this Deed. For these purposes an inquiry includes any administrative or statutory review, audit or inquiry (whether within or external to the AEC), any request for information directed to the AEC, and any inquiry conducted by Parliament or any Parliamentary committee.
The Service Provider must promptly provide access to its computer hardware and software to the extent necessary for the AEC to exercise its rights under this clause 33, and provide the AEC with any reasonable assistance requested by the AEC to use that hardware and software.
Conduct of audit and access
The AEC must use reasonable endeavours to ensure that:
audits performed pursuant to clause 33.1; and
the exercise of the general rights granted by clause 33.2 by the AEC,
do not unreasonably delay or disrupt (in any material respect) the Service Provider's performance of its obligations under this Deed or its business.
Costs
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, each party must bear its own costs of any reviews and/or audits.
Auditor-General, Ombudsman and Commissioners
The rights of the AEC under clause 33.2(a)(i) to 33.2(a)(iv) apply equally to the Auditor-General, Ombudsman, Information Commissioner, Privacy Commissioner and Freedom of Information Commissioner, or his or her delegate, for the purpose of performing their respective statutory functions or powers.
Service Provider to comply with requirements
The Service Provider must do all things necessary to comply with the Auditor-General's, Ombudsman's, Information Commissioner's, Privacy Commissioner's or Freedom of Information Commissioner's or his or her delegate's requirements, notified under
clause 33.2, provided such requirements are legally enforceable and within their respective statutory functions or powers.
No reduction in responsibility
The requirement for, and participation in, audits does not in any way reduce the Service Provider's responsibility to perform its obligations in accordance with this Deed.
Subcontractor requirements
The Service Provider must ensure that any subcontract entered into for the purpose of this Deed contains an equivalent clause granting the rights specified in this clause 33.
No restriction
Nothing in this Deed reduces, limits or restricts in any way any function, power, right or entitlement of the Auditor-General, Ombudsman, Information Commissioner, Privacy Commissioner or Freedom of Information Commissioner, or his or her delegate.
The rights of the AEC under this Deed are in addition to any other power, right or entitlement of the Auditor-General, Ombudsman, Information Commissioner, Privacy Commissioner or Freedom of Information Commissioner, or his or her delegate.
Survival
This clause applies for the Deed Period and for a period of seven years from the termination or expiry of this Deed.
Workplace legislation
Work health and safety
The Service Provider must in carrying out its obligations under this Deed, comply, and use reasonable endeavours to ensure that its subcontractors comply, with the provisions of all relevant Laws and requirements of any Commonwealth, State, Territory or local authority including those arising under a WHS Law in respect of occupational health and safety.
The Service Provider must, in carrying out its obligations under this Deed, comply, and use reasonable endeavours to ensure that its subcontractors comply, with any of the Commonwealth's work, health and safety policies as notified, referred to, or made available, by the Commonwealth to the Service Provider in writing.
If the Service Provider is required by a WHS Law to report to a Regulator an incident arising out of the provision of the Services:
at the same time, or as soon as is possible in the circumstances, the Service Provider must give notice of such incident, and a copy of any written notice provided to a Regulator, to the AEC; and
the Service Provider must provide to the AEC, within such time as is specified by the AEC, a report detailing the circumstances of the incident, the results of investigations into its cause, and any recommendations or strategies for prevention in the future.
The Service Provider must inform the AEC of the full details of:
any suspected contravention of a WHS Law relating to the provision of the Services, within 24 hours of becoming aware of any such suspected contravention;
any cessation or direction to cease work relating to the provision of the Services, due to unsafe work, immediately upon the Service Provider being informed of any such cessation or direction;
any workplace entry by a WHS entry permit holder, or an inspector, to any place where the Services are being performed or undertaken, within 24 hours of becoming aware of any such workplace entry; and
any proceedings against the Service Provider or its officers, or any decision or request by the Regulator given to the Service Provider or its Personnel,
under a WHS Law, within 24 hours of becoming aware of any such proceedings, decision or request.
WGE Act
This clause applies only to the extent that the Service Provider is a 'relevant employer' for the purposes of the WGE Act.
The Service Provider must comply with its obligations, if any, under the WGE Act.
If the Service Provider becomes non-compliant with the WGE Act during the Deed Period, the Service Provider must promptly notify the AEC Deed Manager of that fact.
If the Deed Period exceeds 18 months, the Service Provider must provide a current letter of compliance within 18 months from the Commencement Date and following this, annually, to the AEC Deed Manager.
Compliance with the WGE Act does not relieve the Service Provider, from its responsibility to comply with its other obligations under this Deed.
Indigenous Procurement Policy
Overview
It is Commonwealth policy to stimulate Indigenous entrepreneurship and business development, providing Indigenous Australians with more opportunities to participate in the economy (see the Indigenous Procurement Policy for further information).
The Service Provider must use its reasonable endeavours to increase its:
purchasing from Indigenous Enterprises; and
employment of Indigenous Australians, in the delivery of the Services.
If any Agreement is (or becomes) a High Value Contract, the mandatory minimum requirements for Indigenous participation, as set out in the Indigenous Procurement Policy will apply.
Indigenous Participation Plan
If a Work Order is issued and the Agreement is, or becomes during the Agreement Period, a High Value Contract, the Service Provider must develop an Indigenous Participation Plan within 20 Business Days of the Services Start Date or the Agreement becoming a High Value Contract, as the case may be, and submit the draft Indigenous Participation Plan to the AEC for its review and approval.
Compliance and reporting
On approval of the draft Indigenous Participation Plan under clause 35.2, the Service Provider must:
comply with the Indigenous Participation Plan;
report on its compliance with the Indigenous Participation Plan to the AEC Deed Manager quarterly during the Agreement Period;
comply with any directions issued by the AEC Deed Manager in relation to the Service Provider's implementation of the Indigenous Participation Plan; and
report on its compliance with the Indigenous Participation Plan to the AEC Deed Manager within 10 Business Days after the end of the Agreement Period (End of Term Report).
The End of Term Report must identify whether the Service Provider:
met the mandatory minimum requirements in the Indigenous Procurement Policy; and
complied with the Indigenous Participation Plan.
If the Service Provider did not comply with the Indigenous Participation Plan it must provide an explanation for any non-compliance (including partial non-compliance).
If the AEC Deed Manager considers, in its absolute discretion at any time during the Agreement Period, that it has concerns in relation to the Service Provider's:
compliance with the Indigenous Participation Plan; or
overall ability to meet the mandatory minimum requirements as set out in the Indigenous Procurement Policy,
the AEC Deed Manager may request the Service Provider to provide additional detail in relation to its implementation of and overall ability to comply with the Indigenous Participation Plan.
The Service Provider must comply with all reasonable directions issued by the AEC Deed Manager in relation to the Service Provider's implementation of the Indigenous Participation Plan.
Termination rights
Without limiting its other rights under this Deed or at Law, any material failure by the Service Provider to:
implement the Indigenous Participation Plan; or
comply with a direction issued by the AEC Deed Manager under clause 35.3(e),
will be a material breach of this Deed, and the AEC may terminate this Deed in accordance with clause 24.2.
Use of reports
Notwithstanding any other clause of this Deed, the Service Provider acknowledges and agrees that the reports it submits under clauses 35.3(a)(ii) and 35.3(a)(iv):
will be recorded in a central database that is able to be accessed by Commonwealth entities and may be made publicly available;
will not be considered to be Service Provider Confidential Information; and
may be used by Commonwealth entities for any purpose, including for evaluation of an offer to provide the Services to a Commonwealth entity.
Shadow Economy Policy
Warranty
The Service Provider warrants:
that at the commencement of this Deed it holds a Valid and Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record; and
in relation to any First Tier Subcontractor it has engaged to deliver goods and/or services with an estimated value of over $4 million (GST inclusive) that the Service Provider holds a Satisfactory Statement of Tax Record for the subcontractor that was Valid at the time of entry into the subcontract by the Service Provider and the subcontractor.
Child Safety
If any part of the Services involves the Service Provider employing or engaging a person (whether as an officer, employee, contractor, or volunteer) that is required by Law to have a working with children check to undertake the Services or any part of the Services, the Service Provider agrees:
to comply with all Laws relating to the employment or engagement of people who work or volunteer with children in relation to the Services, including mandatory reporting and working with children checks however described; and
if requested, provide the AEC at the Service Provider's cost, an annual statement of compliance with this clause, in such form as may be specified by the AEC.
When child safety obligations may be relevant to a subcontract, the Service Provider must ensure that any subcontract entered into by the Service Provider for the purposes of fulfilling the Service Provider's obligations under this Deed imposes on the subcontractor the same obligations regarding child safety that the Service Provider has under this Deed. Each subcontract must also require the same obligations (where relevant) to be included by the subcontractor in any secondary subcontracts.
37A.  National Anti-Corruption Commission
The Service Provider acknowledges that in providing the Services to the AEC under this Agreement, it is a contracted service provider for the purposes of the National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022 (Cth) (NACC Act). The Service Provider and its officers or employees engaged in the performance of this Agreement (and any subcontractors) will be public officials under the NACC Act. 
The Service Provider must comply with any reasonable request, policy or direction issued by the AEC and otherwise cooperate with the AEC in relation to any action taken by the AEC required or authorised by the NACC Act.
37B. Supplier Code of Conduct
For the purposes of this clause, ‘Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct’ or ‘Code’ means the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct, as published on 1 July 2024, as updated from time to time.
The Service Provider must comply with, and ensure that it’s officers, employees, agents and subcontractors comply with, the Code in connection with the performance of this Deed.
The Service Provider must:
periodically monitor and assess its, and its officers’, employees’, and agents’ compliance with the Code; and
on request from the AEC, promptly provide information regarding:
the policies, frameworks, or systems it has established to monitor and assess compliance with the Code, and
the Service Provider’s compliance with clause 37B(b).
The Service Provider must immediately issue the AEC a Notice on becoming aware of any breach of clause 37B(b). The Notice must include a summary of the breach, the date that the breach occurred, and details of the personnel involved.
Where the AEC identifies a possible breach of clause 37B(b), it may issue the Service Provider a Notice, and the Supplier must, within three (3) Business Days of receiving the Notice, either:
where the Service Provider considers a breach has not occurred: advise the AEC that there has not been a breach and provide information supporting that determination; or
where the Service Provider considers that a breach has occurred: issue a Notice under clause 37B(d) and otherwise comply with its obligations under this clause 37B.
Notwithstanding clause 37B(e), the AEC may notify the Service Provider in writing that it considers that the Service Provider has breached clause 37B(b), in which case the Service Provider must issue a Notice under clause 37B(d) and otherwise comply with its obligations under this clause 37B.
A failure by the Service Provider to comply with its obligations under any part of this clause will be a material breach of this Deed.
Nothing in this clause or the Code limits, reduces, or derogates from the Service Provider’s other obligations under this Deed. The AEC’s rights under this clause are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights the AEC may have under this Deed. The performance by the Service Provider of its obligations under this clause will be at no additional cost to the AEC.
The Service Provider agrees that the AEC or any other Commonwealth agency may take into account the Service Provider’s compliance with the Code in any future approach to market or procurement process.
37C. Notification of Significant Events
For the purposes of this clause, ‘Significant Event’ means:
any adverse comments or findings made by a court, commission, tribunal or other statutory or professional body regarding the conduct or performance of the Service Provider or its officers, employees, agents or Subcontractors that impacts or could be reasonably perceived to impact on their professional capacity, capability, fitness or reputation; or
any other significant matters, including the commencement of legal, regulatory or disciplinary action involving the Service Provider or its officers, employees, agents or Subcontractors, that may adversely impact on compliance with Commonwealth policy and legislation or the Commonwealth’s reputation.
The Service Provider must immediately issue the AEC a Notice on becoming aware of a Significant Event.
The Notice issued under clause 37C(b) must provide a summary of the Significant Event, including the date that it occurred and whether any Specified Personnel or other personnel engaged in connection with the Services were involved.   
The AEC may notify the Service Provider in writing that an event is to be considered a Significant Event for the purposes of this clause, and where this occurs the Service Provider must issue a Notice under clause 37C(b) in relation to the event within three (3) Business Days of being notified by the AEC.
Where reasonably requested by the AEC, the Service Provider must provide the AEC with any additional information regarding the Significant Event within three (3) Business Days of the request.
If requested by the AEC, the Service Provider must prepare a draft remediation plan and submit that draft plan to the AEC’s Representative for approval within ten (10) Business Days of the request.
A draft remediation plan prepared by the Service Provider under clause 37C(f) must include the following information:
how the Service Provider will address the Significant Event in the context of the Services, including confirmation that the implementation of the remediation plan will not in any way impact on the delivery of the Services or compliance by the Service Provider with its other obligations under this Deed; and
how the Service Provider will ensure events similar to the Significant Event do not occur again; and
any other matter reasonably requested by the AEC.
The AEC will review the draft remediation plan and either approve the draft remediation plan or provide the Service Provider with the details of any changes that are required. The Service Provider must make any changes to the draft remediation plan reasonably requested by the AEC and resubmit the draft remediation plan to the AEC for approval within three (3) Business Days of the request unless a different timeframe is agreed in writing by the AEC. This clause 37C(h) will apply to any resubmitted draft remediation plan.
Without limiting its other obligations under this Deed, the Service Provider must comply with the remediation plan as approved by the AEC. The Service Provider agrees to provide reports and other information about the Service Provider’s progress in implementing the remediation plan as reasonably requested by the AEC.
A failure by the Service Provider to comply with its obligations under this clause will be a material breach of this Deed. The AEC’s rights under this clause are in addition to and do not otherwise limit any other rights the AEC may have under this Deed. The performance by the Service Provider of its obligations under this clause will be at no additional cost to the AEC.
Insurance
The Service Provider must:
effect and maintain the insurances specified in the Insurance Requirements for the period specified in the Insurance Requirements;
not reduce any insurance policy required by this Deed without the written consent of the AEC;
give evidence of the insurances, and their currency, acceptable to the AEC on request; and
ensure that any subcontract entered into by the Service Provider in relation to this Deed places on the subcontractor, in respect of the subcontractor's activities, the same or similar obligations about insurances, as this clause places on the Service Provider.
Force Majeure Events
Occurrence of Force Majeure Event
Subject to clause 39.2, a party (Affected Party) is excused from performing its obligations under this Deed to the extent it is prevented by circumstances beyond its reasonable control (other than lack of funds for any reason or any strike, lockout and labour disputes in respect of the Service Provider only), including acts of God, natural disasters, acts of war, riots and strikes outside the Affected Party's organisation (each a Force Majeure Event).
Notice of Force Majeure Event
When a Force Majeure Event arises or is reasonably perceived by the Affected Party as an imminent possibility, the Affected Party must give notice of the Force Majeure Event to the other party as soon as possible, identifying the effect it will have on its performance.
An Affected Party must make all reasonable efforts to minimise the effects of the Force Majeure Event on the performance of this Agreement.
Termination
If non-performance or diminished performance by the Affected Party due to a Force Majeure Event continues for a period of more than 30 consecutive days the other party may terminate the Agreement immediately by giving the Affected Party written notice.
Consequences of termination
If the Agreement is terminated under clause 39.3:
each party will bear its own costs and neither party will incur further liability to the other; and
where the Service Provider is the Affected Party, it will be entitled to payment for Services rendered in accordance with the Agreement prior to the date of intervention of the Force Majeure Event.
Dispute resolution
No arbitration or court proceedings
If a dispute arises in relation to the conduct of this Deed or an Agreement (Dispute), a party must comply with this clause 40 before starting arbitration or court proceedings (except proceedings for urgent interlocutory relief). After a party has sought or obtained any urgent interlocutory relief, that party must then follow this clause 40.
Notification
A party claiming a Dispute has arisen must give the other parties to the Dispute notice setting out details of the Dispute.
Parties to resolve Dispute
During the 14 days after a notice is given under clause 40.2 (or longer period if the parties to the Dispute agree in writing), each party to the Dispute must use its
reasonable efforts through a meeting of CEOs (or their nominees) to resolve the Dispute. If the parties cannot resolve the Dispute within that period, they must refer the Dispute to a mediator if one of them requests.
Appointment of mediator
If the parties to the Dispute cannot agree on a mediator within seven days after a request under clause 40.3, the chairperson of the Resolution Institute or the chairperson's nominee will appoint a mediator.
Role of mediator and obligations of parties
The role of a mediator is to assist in negotiating a resolution of the Dispute. A mediator may not make a binding decision on a party to the Dispute except if the party agrees in writing. Unless agreed by the mediator and parties, the mediation must be held within 21 days of the request for mediation in clause 40.3. The parties must attend the mediation and act in good faith to genuinely attempt to resolve the Dispute.
Confidentiality
Any information or documents disclosed by a party under this clause 40:
must be kept confidential; and
may only be used to attempt to resolve the Dispute.
Costs
Each party to a Dispute must pay its own costs of complying with this clause 40. The parties to the Dispute must equally pay the costs of any mediator.
Termination of process
A party to a Dispute may terminate the dispute resolution process by giving notice to each other party after it has complied with clauses 40.1 to 40.5. Clauses 40.6 and 40.7 survive termination of the dispute resolution process.
Breach of this clause
If a party to a Dispute breaches clauses 40.1 to 40.8, the other party does not have to comply with those clauses in relation to the Dispute.
Notices and other communications
Service of notices
A party giving notice or notifying under this Deed must do so in English and in writing:
as directed to the other party's contact person at the other party's address, as varied by any notice; and
hand delivered or sent by prepaid post, or Electronic Communication to that address.
The parties' addresses are specified in Item 12 of the Deed Details or as varied by a notice under this clause.
Effective on receipt
A notice given in accordance with clause 41.1 takes effect when it is taken to be received (or at a later time specified in the notice), and is taken to be received:
if hand delivered, on delivery;
if sent by prepaid post, on the second Business Day after the date of posting (or on the seventh Business Day after the date of posting if posted to or from a place outside Australia); or
if sent by Electronic Communication, at the time that would be the time of receipt under the Electronic Transactions Act 1999 (Cth),
but if the delivery, receipt or transmission is not urgent and not on a Business Day or is after 5.00pm on a Business Day, the notice is taken to be received at 9.00am on the next Business Day.
Survival
The following clauses survive the termination and expiry of this Deed:
clause 9 (Transition out);
clause 26 (Confidentiality and privacy);
clause 27 (Protection of Personal Information);
clause 28 (Access to documents);
clause 31 (Security);
clause 32 (Books and records);
clause 33 (Audit and access); and
clause 38 (Insurance).
Miscellaneous
Ownership of Deed
All copyright and other Intellectual Property Rights contained in this Deed remain the property of the AEC.
Variation
This Deed may only be varied in writing signed by both parties.
An Agreement may only be varied in writing signed by both parties. The parties will generally use the template deed of variation in Schedule 8 for this purpose.
Approvals and consents
Except where this Deed expressly states otherwise, a party may, in its discretion, give conditionally or unconditionally or withhold any approval or consent under this Deed.
Assignment and novation
A party may only assign its rights or novate its rights and obligations under this Deed with the prior written consent of the other party.
Costs
Each party must pay its own costs of negotiating, preparing and executing this Deed.
Counterparts
The parties agree that:
this Deed may be executed in counterparts;
all executed counterparts constitute one document; and
this Deed and any Agreement may be exchanged by means of Electronic Communication.
No merger
The rights and obligations of the parties under this Deed do not merge on completion of any transaction contemplated by this Deed.
Entire agreement
This Deed and each Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the parties in connection with their subject matter and supersede all previous agreements or understandings between the parties in connection with their subject matter.
Further action
Each party must do, at its own expense, everything reasonably necessary (including executing documents) to give full effect to this Deed and any transaction contemplated by it.
Severability
A term or part of a term of this Deed that is illegal or unenforceable may be severed from this Deed and the remaining terms or parts of the terms of this Deed continue in force.
Waiver
Waiver of any provision of or right under this Deed:
must be in writing signed by the party entitled to the benefit of that provision or right; and
is effective only to the extent set out in any written waiver.
Relationship
The parties must not represent themselves, and must ensure that their Personnel and subcontractors do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the other party, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the other party.
This Deed does not create a relationship of employment, agency or partnership between the parties.
Announcements
The Service Provider must, before making a public announcement in connection with this Deed or any transaction contemplated by it, obtain the AEC's written agreement to the announcement, except if required by Law or a regulatory body (including a relevant stock exchange).
If the Service Provider is required by Law or a regulatory body to make a public announcement in connection with this Deed or any transaction contemplated by this Deed, the Service Provider must, to the extent practicable, first consult with and take into account the reasonable requirements of the AEC.
Disclosure of information
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the AEC may disclose information about this Deed, including Personal Information, required to be reported by the AEC.
Governing Law and jurisdiction
This Deed is governed by the Law of the Australian Capital Territory and each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Australian Capital Territory.
Schedule 1 - Deed Details
 Schedule 2 - Statement of Requirements	
Overview
Purpose
The role of the AEC is to deliver an Australian citizen's right to vote, as established and defined by the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 (CEA).
The AEC is responsible for conducting Electoral Events and maintaining the Commonwealth electoral roll. The AEC also provides a range of electoral information and education programs and activities. These activities take place at various venues and locations across Australia.
During an Electoral Event, high volumes of furniture and equipment are hired and purchased by the AEC for use by each Division and State office. Only limited notice of an Electoral Event can be provided to the Service Provider.
In this context, the purpose of this Statement of Requirements (SoR) is to state the AEC’s requirements for Services in support of Electoral Events and invite potential suppliers to provide a solution that meets part or all of AEC’s requirements. 
About the AEC
The AEC has a three-tier office network structure comprising:
a National Office in Canberra;
6 state and two territory offices; and
currently 150 divisions located at approximately 85 locations around Australia.
	Additionally, for the conduct of an Electoral Event the AEC operates:
approximately 65 Out-Posted Centres predominantly in industrial buildings and warehouses; 
approximately 7,500 Polling Places at venues such as local schools and local halls, etc.
Further information about the AEC can be found on its website: http://www.aec.gov.au.
Definitions
In this SoR, the following additional definitions are used:
Services
Description of the Services
The AEC is seeking suitable Service Providers to provide the following Services:
Hire of furniture (e.g. tables, chairs) and/or office (e.g. water dispensers, urns, mats, lockers, etc.) and warehouse operational (e.g. pallet jacks, shelving, fencing, etc. – note, warehouse equipment exclusively at Out-Posted Centres) equipment (see Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT for further details); comprising:
delivery and collection of furniture and equipment;
unpacking/repacking and assembling furniture and equipment;
removal and disposal of packaging material;
meeting the AEC’s timeframes for Services;
dedicated account managers for critical stages within an Election Period; 
reporting on the Services; and
invoicing for the Services.
For noting: while ideally, the AEC would value Service Providers who can provide all the requirements noted in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT (i.e. all types of furniture and equipment, to all types of operation (OPCs and polling places) to all locations) the AEC understands that this may not reflect the business model of all Tenderers. 
As such, while it would value comprehensive offers (covering all operations, requirements and areas) the AEC still wishes to evaluate offers based on the industry specialisation and unique offerings reflected in the Tenderer’s submission. For example: furniture only offers, warehouse equipment only offers, purchase/l-buyback options, etc. 
The Pricing Schedules in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT reflect indicative usage totals for a future Event, while considering information from the most recent Event (Federal Election 2025), including:
a list of AEC locations and their demographic classifications
quantities
periods of hire.
Further indicative delivery graphics and profile information for statics can be found in Schedule 3 Annexure O of the RFT.
Delivery and collection of furniture and equipment to and from nominated venues and locations will generally be for fixed durations for all the required equipment. The delivery and duration requirement for some materials, however, will be staggered at OPCs (and possibly for other locations) depending on the needs for those locations (as an example, see ‘electoral furniture’ categories in the ‘Out-posted Centre’ tab of the spreadsheet template as part of Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT).
The AEC wishes to work with the successful Service Providers to develop efficient delivery patterns for furniture and equipment. This is also critical to assisting the AEC understand and plan for transport charges. Tenderers should factor time to work with AEC staff in each state to plan deliveries (e.g. milk runs) in the planning period directly prior to the election being called. 
Dedicated account manager(s) should have an appropriate level of seniority in the Service Provider’s organisation who is readily contactable and is experienced in performing a client relationship management role. They would be the primary point of contact for: 
managing the Services at a holistic level;
coordinating requests, Services and invoicing arrangements at the national level, where appropriate; and
addressing (and escalating where required) all correspondence, queries, complaints and concerns of the AEC Representative in a prompt and responsive manner.
The dedicated account manager must be available to:
liaise with the AEC Representative during Business Hours, after Business Hours, and on weekends during an Election Period; and
respond promptly to all AEC enquiries and requests.
An alternative contact person of equivalent seniority (or higher) must also be nominated by the Service Provider in the event that the dedicated account manager is not contactable.
On collection of furniture and equipment, the Service Provider must immediately notify the AEC if any AEC Material or Sensitive Election Material is found in the hired furniture or equipment. The AEC Material or Sensitive Election Material must be held securely by the Service Provider, until the AEC arranges for the collection of its material within 5 business days.
The Service Provider is expected to provide the Services in accordance with the AEC’s timeframes, specified in Table 1 below, noting the AEC will engage the Service Provider during planning stages in the lead up to a General Election to discuss this further. Final delivery timeframes will be confirmed prior to the requirement by the AEC in writing in a Work Order.
Table 1: AEC Delivery Timeframes for a General Election
Table 2 below provides an indicative schedule of the Services required from the Service Provider for the collection of hired furniture and equipment from Static Polling Places and PPVCs for a General Election.
Table 2: AEC Collection Timeframes for a General Election
The AEC may request the following Additional Services:
storage of furniture and equipment owned by the AEC; and
delivery, collection and/or transport of furniture and equipment and incidental goods and services.
The AEC may purchase Goods from the Service Provider at the prices set out in the relevant Schedule to the Agreement. A separate work order under the terms and conditions set out in the Commonwealth Contracting Suite will be established should the AEC choose to purchase any Goods. The terms and conditions for the Commonwealth Contracting Suite is at https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonwealth-contracting-suite-ccs#ccs-terms. 
Additionally, the AEC wishes to consider options that involve the purchase of Goods from and sale-back to the Service Provider. The AEC asks Tenderers to use their industry expertise to develop options and provide pricing that allow the AEC to purchase the furniture and equipment and either retain that furniture and equipment, or, if there is no further ongoing requirement on the part of the AEC, for the Service Provider to arrange the pick-up and return of those items for a pre-agreed price. 
Should the Tenderer wish to tender for this element, the relevant pricing schedule should be added to Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT. Pricing should include the purchase price, delivery (transport and handling) pricing, sell-back pricing and pick up (transport and handling) pricing and any surcharges based on the range of furniture and equipment noted in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT.
Reporting
When delivering/collecting furniture and equipment, Service Providers must:
provide reports in a format, layout and style acceptable to the AEC. 
provide daily reports during peak service periods. The content of these reports will include an itemised list of completed deliveries/collections of furniture equipment to the AEC Representative on a daily basis (via email) before 6:00pm local time;
notify the AEC Representative immediately of any variation to the delivery or collection schedules whether due to circumstances within its control or otherwise;
ensure it has sufficient transport capacity and resources to ensure optimal trip and capacity planning to ensure the minimum number of trips are made, including working with the nominated AEC representative to agree delivery and pick up timeframes prior to execution;
ensure that the AEC Representative is contacted prior to the delivery or collection of the furniture and equipment where it is anticipated that additional charges (including any surcharges, as noted in the pricing schedule) may apply, for example as a result of additional trips or weight.
Invoicing
Invoices must meet the requirements of a tax invoice as set out in the GST Act and contain the following information:
the details of the Services e.g. quantities/descriptions/locations/dates/times of the furniture delivered;
contract number;
period covered by invoice;
title and description of the Services;
the amount of any Fee Credits applicable during the invoice period; 
surcharges (including details of those surcharges e.g. justification, location, dates, times) and
any other information reasonably requested by the AEC from time to time.
Service Levels
The AEC requires the Service Provider to meet or exceed agreed Service Levels as detailed in Table 3 with final measurement levels for Service Levels to be included in the proposed agreement.
Table 3 – Draft Service Levels
Note to Tenderers: The AEC will work with the Service Provider to develop a Service Level Agreement (SLA) based on the service levels above. The SLA will involve the application of fee credits should the Service Provider fail to meet the service levels. It is expected that the Service Provider will monitor and report on its performance with the intent to meet or exceed all service levels and actively identify any areas requiring improvement.
For further guidance on the AEC’s current thoughts on developing the Service Level Agreement, please see the Annexure A – Service Level Scenario.
 Annexure A -  Service Level Scenario	
Background
The key constraint to achieving optimal outcomes for furniture and equipment hire concerns uncertainty around the timing of an Electoral Event i.e. the AEC cannot give clear notice of when the next General Election will be held. At this stage, the best information that can be provided to Service Providers on timing is that:
the earliest the next General Election can be called is 7 August 2027; and
the latest time that the next General Election can be called is 20 May 2028.
AEC will also provide guidance on subsequent Electoral Events including General Elections when known.
The Services will primarily be provided in support of three categories of venues with different levels of uncertainty surrounding their requirements:
Out-Posted Centres (OPCs): typically, premises for an OPC are leased for a longer period (e.g. 1 to 3 months) than PPVCs or Static Polling Places. As ballot papers are counted at an OPC they must be secure. There is higher certainty around the furniture/equipment requirements for an OPC.
 Pre-Poll Voting Centre (PPVC): a polling place where an elector casts a vote before Polling Day. Typically leases for PPVCs are approximately 1 month. Premises leased are mostly community centres, schools and churches. Certainty around the furniture/equipment requirements for a PPVC is low but considered better than that for Static Polling Places noting that some PPVC locations will not be finalised until after the General Election announcement has been made.
Static Polling Places: polling places set up in each Division to take the votes of electors for an Election Event i.e. the venue where voters will turn up on Polling Day. Premises for Static Polling Places are often local schools and churches. Leases for Static Polling Places are very short meaning timeframes for delivery and collection of furniture will be limited (e.g. 1-2 days). Static Polling Places have the lowest level of certainty around their furniture/equipment requirements.
Managing uncertainty
It is estimated that the AEC's requirements for approximately 80% of its furniture and equipment needs will be related to OPCs. Noting this, the AEC proposes to manage this uncertainty related to its OPC requirements by:
Engaging closely with Service Providers during planning stages. For example once leases for OPCs are finalised, the Service Provider will be provided the relevant details to help with the delivery/collection schedule; and
Work Orders for OPCs should be established relatively early in the lead up to a General Election i.e. several months prior to a General Election.
The AEC's furniture and equipment requirements for Pre-Poll Voting Centres and Static Polling Places are far more 'fluid' and cannot be fixed until after the announcement has been made. Noting that timeliness for delivery of furniture and equipment is critical, the AEC proposes to manage this uncertainty by:
Providing Service Providers maximum/minimum ranges for its furniture and equipment requirements;
Establishing Work Orders on a Not-To-Exceed basis and drawing down on their value as requirements become fixed;
Selecting Service Providers that will proactively engage with the AEC to actively manage uncertainty and risk.
Service level agreement
As Polling Day draws closer, Service Providers may be unable to meet the AEC's requirements if they have been given insufficient time and the AEC's options to approach alternative suppliers will be restricted.
To reduce the likelihood of this scenario and to better align the interests of the AEC and the Service Provider, a Service Level Agreement is at Schedule 4 of this Deed.
For the purposes of developing an effective Service Level Agreement an example of an optimal outcome for Static Polling Places in a Division is provided below.
Example of Optimal Outcome for Static Polling Places in a Division
An Election Event is announced and the Service Provider is notified. Within 7 days, most of the orders confirming the AEC's requirements are confirmed for each location within the Division. However, some orders can only be provided closer to Polling Day.
Service Providers coordinate the necessary furniture and equipment in line with AEC requirements.
Furniture and equipment is delivered to Static Polling Places with all deliveries being finalised by 8pm on the Friday before Polling Day (Saturday).
At delivery, the Service Provider unpacks the furniture, assembles the furniture, moves it to the approximate vicinity of the desired place within the Static Polling Place and then removes all packaging material.
Furniture and equipment is marked/labelled as belonging to the Service Provider.
The Service Provider obtains approval/signature from the nominated AEC representative at the site that the furniture/equipment has been delivered.
By 6pm on each day during the 2 weeks leading up to Polling Day, the Service Provider emails the relevant AEC representative of all furniture and equipment that has been delivered (Delivery Report). However, on the Friday before Polling Day, 2 Delivery Reports are provided: one at 1pm and one at 9pm.
The day following Polling Day (Sunday), collection of equipment commences at venues where this is possible - some venues may be unable to facilitate collection on Sundays. Photos are taken of any damaged furniture or equipment.
All furniture/equipment has been collected by the second day following Polling Day (Monday).
By 6pm on each collection day, the Service Provider emails the relevant AEC representative of all furniture and equipment that has been collected which includes details of any missing furniture/equipment as well as photos of damaged equipment (Collection Report).
In the following weeks, an invoice is then sent by the Service Provider to the AEC detailing all furniture and equipment that has been delivered and collected from the relevant sites. The details in this invoice can be clearly
reconciled to the Delivery/Collection reports as well as the AEC's initial orders. No surcharges or levies are included that have not been agreed with the AEC prior and such surcharges and levies, if included, can be clearly and easily traced back to determine how they were incurred.
Some potential factors leading to sub-optimal outcomes in this example are provided below:
The Service Provider is unable to meet the AEC's requirements for furniture and equipment in terms of quality and quantity leading to the AEC approaching other suppliers;
Faulty furniture or equipment is reported to the Service Provider but action taken to replace the faulty equipment is delayed;
Furniture and equipment is not marked accurately which leads to confusion during collection and preparing Collection Reports;
Invoices provide insufficient detail and do not reconcile with Collection Reports or Delivery Reports, including surcharges and levies.
 Schedule 3 - Fees for Services	
Fees for Services are provided separately in Annexure B: - SRC 006427 Pricing – [insert Service Provider Name]
All Pricing Provided:
is on a GST inclusive basis and otherwise include all applicable Australian and overseas taxes, duties, and charges; and
include all costs and expenses necessary and incidental to the proper delivery of the Services.
 Schedule 4 - Service Level Agreement	
Overview
Definitions
In this Service Level Agreement, the following additional definitions apply:
Fee Credit Matrix	the matrix at Item 5 of this Service Level Agreement.
Fee Credit Pool	the maximum amount of Fee Credits that may be claimed by the AEC, calculated as 10 per cent of the total Fees payable for each invoice.
Fee Credit mechanism
In providing the Services, the Service Provider must meet or exceed the Service Levels.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Service Levels apply equally to the Services, and any other Additional Services (as relevant) procured under the Agreement from time to time.
The AEC requires the Service Provider to measure and report on Service Levels as a means of indicating performance and identifying any areas requiring improvement.
The AEC requires that Fee Credits are applied to Service Levels in accordance with the Fee Credit Matrix.
Service Provider responsibilities
The Service Provider's performance of the Services will be monitored by the AEC and, where possible, as identified by the AEC or the Service Provider, improved over the Agreement Period.
It is expected that the Service Provider will monitor and report on its performance with the intent to meet or exceed all Service Levels and actively identifying any areas requiring improvement.
If the Service Provider fails to accurately perform the monitoring, recording and reporting tasks that are necessary for the purpose of calculating the achieved Service Levels and Fee Credits, those Services will be regarded as not having been delivered.
The Service Provider will be required as part of its responsibilities under this Service Level Agreement to:
implement effective tools to measure performance for each Service Level;
monitor and report performance against each Service Level;
allocate the required resources to monitor and measure performance;
demonstrate mitigating circumstances where performance is impacted by events outside the Service Provider's control. Evidence of mitigating circumstances does not automatically provide relief from any consequence resulting from a failure to meet a Service Level. However, evidence of such events will be carefully considered by the AEC during performance reviews; and
submit monthly Service Level Reports to the AEC Contract Manager confirming:
to what extent each of the Service Levels have been met during the previous month and the number and frequency of any failures to meet the Service Levels with a detailed explanation of the failure(s);
what measures the Service Provider has put in place where Service Levels have not been met to ensure that Service Levels are met (or exceeded) in the future; and
the Fee Credits to be applied for the previous month.
All Service Levels must be measured in accordance with the requirements stated for each Service Level in Item 4 of this Service Level Agreement.
The Service Provider is responsible for end to end Incident management of escalated Incidents to its subcontractors and any impact on the Service Levels will be the responsibility of the Service Provider.
Source data
The Service Levels provide an indication of the source data that may be used to calculate and determine the extent to which a Service Level has been met by the Service Provider.
Notwithstanding any item listed as source data, the AEC at all times reserves its right to rely on any creditable data source (including its own records) to determine the extent to which a Service Level has been met by the Service Provider.
Fee Credits
Introduction
The AEC is entitled to Fee Credits where the Service Provider fails to achieve the Service Levels.
The Fee Credits that apply for failure to meet the Service Levels must be applied to the monthly invoice amount (excluding approved expenses).
In addition to compensating the AEC for a lower than agreed level of Service, Fee Credits also act as an incentive for the Service Provider to meet the Service Levels. As such, the Service Levels have two trigger points:
the first trigger point signifies a degraded level of Service, for which a specified part of the Fee Credit may be applied at the AEC's discretion; and
the second trigger point is the "failure point". At this trigger point the entire Service Level has failed and the full Fee Credit (or the residual amount if the AEC already applied a part of the Fee Credit due to degraded Service) may be applied at the AEC's discretion.
Application of Fee Credits
The AEC's primary aim is to use the Fee Credit mechanism as a means to continuously improve the effectiveness of Services provided by the Service Provider. In the application of Fee Credits, emphasis will be placed on bringing performance up to agreed and acceptable levels rather than on achieving a reduction in Fees.
Where the Service Provider fails any Service Level the Service Provider will be required to provide a Service Action Plan (within 5 Business Days of notifying the AEC of the Service Level failure) outlining the steps it is taking or will take to rectify the situation.
Notwithstanding the provision of any acceptable Service Action Plan by the Service Provider, all Fee Credits applicable to those Service Levels may be claimed by the AEC.
Prior to claiming applicable Fee Credits, the AEC will be required to consider any mitigating circumstances relating to the Service Provider's failure to meet the agreed Service Level(s). The quantum of Fee Credits payable may be reduced, at the AEC's discretion, based on the information provided by the Service Provider in relation to the mitigating circumstances. Failure to provide, or inability to secure, adequate resources to meet the Service Level will not be considered a mitigating circumstance.
Fee Credit mechanism
The Fee Credit Pool is allocated across the Service Levels such that the distribution totals 100% of the Fee Credit Pool.
A failure to meet a Service Level's "first trigger" will generate a Fee Credit for that Service Level in accordance with the Fee Credit Matrix.
A failure to meet a Service Level's "second trigger" will generate a Fee Credit equal to the residual amount of the Fee Credit for that Service Level in accordance with the Fee Credit Matrix.
The AEC may claim the full Fee Credit for a Service Level due to failure to meet both the "first trigger" and the "second trigger" without having to issue a separate claim regarding the failure of each "trigger".
A Fee Credit will be discharged by:
crediting the amount on the subsequent monthly invoice (or the next applicable invoice); or
in the event there are no further invoices for that Electoral Event or the invoice amount is less than the applicable Fee Credits, making payment of the applicable amount to the AEC.
Changes to Fee Credit Pool distribution
The AEC reserves the right to adjust the Fee Credit Pool distribution across the Service Levels every three months at the AEC's discretion. The reasons for adjusting the Fee Credit Pool distribution will be limited to:
addition or removal of Service Levels in accordance with Item 3.3 of this Service Level Agreement;
reprioritisation of categories and/or individual Service Level percentages to target the Service Provider's service delivery performance to encourage improved performance; and
mitigating changes in assessed risks in the delivery the Services by the Service Provider.
Any redistribution will not alter the size of the Fee Credit Pool. The AEC will advise the Service Provider in writing, one month before the new distribution will take effect.
Overview of Service Levels
Service Level characteristics
The following table documents the characteristics of the Service Levels required by the AEC and provides a description of each characteristic.
Summary of Service Levels
The following is a summary of the Service Levels:
Each Service Level is described in detail in Item 4 below.
Changes to Service Levels
The AEC may request additional Service Levels, changes or deletions of Service Levels at a minimum, every three months by advising the Service Provider in writing of the changes proposed by the AEC.
Where the AEC requests a new Service Level, the Service Provider will meet with the AEC and agreement will be reached to implement this change.
Where a new Service Level is similar to other Service Levels already in place, the AEC expects that the minimum requirements for the new Service Level will be no lower than the similar Service Levels, unless agreed to by the AEC.
Service Levels
The Service Levels are described as follows.
Fee Credit Matrix
Application of Fee Credits
The Fee Credits for failure to meet the Service Levels will be calculated in accordance with the following table.
Worked examples
Example 1:
The Fee Credit Pool is $1000 and Service Level 1 is Triggered. The Fee Credit the AEC is entitled to is: ($1000 x 40% of the Fee Credit allocation for Service Level1) x 30% (for the first trigger point) = $120
Example 2:
The Fee Credit Pool is $15,000 and Service Level 1 is triggered on the second occasion. The Fee Credit the AEC is entitled to is: ($15,000 x 40% of the Fee Credit Pool a/location for Service Level 1) x 70% (given both the first and second triggers have occurred and the first trigger has already been claimed) = $4,200.
Schedule 5 - Designated Confidential
 Information	
Confidential Information of the AEC (clause 26)
Deed provisions/Schedules
Deed-related Material
Confidential Information of the Service Provider (clause 26)
Deed provisions/Schedules
Deed-related Material
Schedule 6 - Request for Quotation
Schedule 7 - Work Order
SIGNED for and on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Australian Electoral Commission ABN 21 133 285 851 by a duly authorised representative
Name of authorised representative (print)	Name of witness (print)
Signature of authorised representative	Signature of witness
Date	Date
SIGNED by [insert Service Provider name] ABN XX XXX XXX in accordance with section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by
Name of Director (print)	Name of Director/ Company Secretary (print)
Signature of Director	Signature of Director/ Company Secretary
Date	Date
Schedule 8 - Template Deed of Variation for
 Agreements	
 Execution page for Deed of Variation	
EXECUTED as a deed
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED for
and on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Australian Electoral Commission ABN 21 133 285 851 by a duly authorised representative
Name of authorised representative (print)	Name of witness (print)
Signature of authorised representative	Signature of witness
Date	Date
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by
[Insert Service Provider name]
ABN XX XXX XXX in accordance with section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by
Name of Director (print)	Name of Director/Company Secretary (print)
Signature of Director	Signature of Director/Company Secretary
Date	Date
Schedule 9 - Confidentiality, Privacy and
 Conflict of Interest Undertaking - deed poll	
Confidant
	of	 (the Confidant).
Recitals
The Commonwealth of Australia represented by the Australian Electoral Commission ABN 21 133 285 851 (AEC) requires the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment associated services (Services).
[Insert Service Provider name] ABN XX XXX XXX (Service Provider) has agreed to provide the Services to the AEC under a deed of standing offer dated 	_ (Deed).
The Confidant provides the undertakings set out below in respect of work to be performed, and information to be acquired, directly or indirectly in connection with the Services.
Definitions
In this deed:
Confidential Information
Conflict of Interest
Personal Information
Access
means information that is by its nature confidential and is:
identified as confidential; or
information of the AEC and the Confidant knows or ought to know that information is confidential,
but does not include information that is or becomes public knowledge other than by breach of this deed or any other confidentiality obligation.
means any circumstance in which:
the Confidant has an interest (whether financial or non-financial) or an affiliation that is affecting, will affect, or could be perceived to affect, the Confidant's ability to perform the Services or work associated with the Services fairly and independently; or
due to a direct or indirect relationship or interest the Confidant may be seen to compromise the political neutrality of the AEC.
has the meaning given in section 6 of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth).
The Confidant understands that in the course of performing the Services, the Confidant may have access to Personal Information and Confidential Information.
Non-disclosure
The Confidant will treat as secret and confidential all Personal Information and Confidential Information to which it has access or which is disclosed to the Confidant.
If the AEC grants its consent for the Confidant to disclose Personal Information or Confidential Information, it may impose conditions on that consent. In particular, the AEC may require that the Confidant obtains the execution of a deed in these terms by the person to whom the Confidant proposes to disclose the Personal Information or Confidential Information.
The Confidant's obligations under this deed will not be taken to have been breached where the Confidant is legally required to disclose the Personal Information or Confidential Information.
Restriction on use
The Confidant will use the Personal Information or Confidential Information only for the purpose of its dealings with the AEC (whether directly or indirectly).
The Confidant will not copy, reproduce or disclose the Personal Information or Confidential Information without the approval of the AEC, will not allow any other person outside the AEC access to the Personal Information or Confidential Information, except to senior managers of the Service Provider who have a need to know basis for such information and, for security classified information, have the appropriate security clearance and will take all necessary precautions to prevent unauthorised access to or copying or disclosure of the Personal Information or Confidential Information in its control.
The Confidant will ensure that anybody to whom it provides or discloses the Personal Information or Confidential Information is made aware of the conditions under which this information is provided or disclosed, and of the fact that the confidentiality/secrecy of the information must be maintained.
Where the Confidant is an individual it will undergo all relevant security clearance vetting processes where it has, or will be given, access to security classified information for more than three months.
Delivery up of documents
Immediately on request by the AEC, the Confidant must deliver to the AEC all documents in its possession or control containing Personal Information or Confidential Information.
If at the time of such a request the Confidant is aware that documents containing Personal Information or Confidential Information are beyond its possession or control, then the Confidant must provide full details of where the documents containing the Personal Information or Confidential Information are, and the identity of the person who has control of them.
6.	Privacy obligations
The Confidant agrees to abide by the provisions of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), including the Australian Privacy Principles set out in that Act, in respect of both Personal Information and Confidential Information, whether or not it is legally bound to comply with that Act and as if the definition of personal information in that Act includes Confidential Information.
Conflict of Interest
The Confidant warrants, to the best of its knowledge, as at the date of this deed, that no Conflict of Interest exists or is likely to arise in its performance of the work associated with the Services except in relation to the following:
Insert details of any Conflict of Interest or otherwise insert 'Not applicable'. Attach additional pages if needed.
If a Conflict of Interest arises during the course of its work associated with the Services, or appears likely to arise, the Confidant acknowledges that it must:
immediately notify the AEC in writing of the Conflict of Interest making a full disclosure of all relevant information relating to the Conflict of Interest and setting out the steps it proposes to take to resolve or otherwise deal with the Conflict of Interest; and
take such steps as the AEC may reasonably require to resolve or otherwise deal with that Conflict of Interest.
Intellectual Property Rights and Moral Rights
The Confidant:
acknowledges that any Agreement Material created under the Deed by the Confidant is created at the direction or under the control of the AEC; and
hereby:
assigns to the AEC, and, if the Confidant is an organisation or corporate legal entity must ensure its employees or agents assign to the AEC, any Intellectual Property Rights that the Confidant may have in the Agreement Material in accordance with the requirements of the Deed; and
in relation to any Moral Rights that the Confidant may have in relation to the Agreement Material, to the extent permitted by Law, consents and, if the Confidant is an organisation or corporate legal entity must ensure its employees or agents (if any) consent, to the Specified Acts.
In this clause, Agreement Material, Intellectual Property Rights, Moral Rights and Specified Acts have the same meaning as they have in the Deed.
Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth)
The Confidant acknowledges the provisions of Part 10.7 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) which provides for a range of penalties, including imprisonment for an offence against those provisions.
The Confidant acknowledges that:
section 121.1(1) of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) states that the term "Commonwealth officer" includes:
an individual who is a contracted service provider for a Commonwealth contract; and
an individual who is an officer or employee of a contracted service provider for a Commonwealth contract and who provides services for the purposes (whether direct or indirect) of the Commonwealth contract
it is an offence under Part 5.6 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) to communicate or otherwise deal with various types of information obtained by reason of being, or having been, a Commonwealth officer or otherwise engaged to perform work for a Commonwealth entity; and
it is an offence under Division 137 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) to knowingly give false and misleading information (in a material particular) to the Commonwealth or its officers or agents.
Indemnity
Where the Confidant is an organisation or corporate legal entity, the Confidant indemnifies the AEC against any claim made against, or loss incurred by, the AEC which is caused or contributed to by the Confidant's failure to comply with this deed.
Survival
This deed will survive the termination or expiry of any contract between the AEC and the Confidant.
Applicable law
This deed will be governed by, and construed in all respects in accordance with, the law of the Australian Capital Territory and I agree to submit to the applicable jurisdiction of the Courts of that Territory in respect of all matters arising under, or in relation to, this deed.
 Execution of deed poll	
EXECUTED as a deed poll
[For an individual]
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by	in the presence of
Name of Confidant	Name of witness
Signature of Confidant	Signature of witness (print)
Date
[For a company with multiple directors]
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by[insert name of Service Provider] 
ABN XX XXX XXX in accordance with section 127 of the
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by Name of Director (print)
Date
Name of Director/Company Secretary (print)
Signature of Director	Signature of Director/Company Secretary
Date	Date
Schedule 10 - Risk Management Plan
Draft Risk Management Plan as per commencement of this Deed is as follows.
 Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page 90
 Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page 91
Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page  92
I
 Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page 93
 Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events							page 94
 Schedule 11 - Agency Nomination Form
Recitals
The Service Provider has offered under clause 7 of the Deed specified at Item 1 below to provide the Services to Nominated Agencies. 
The Nominated Agency specified in Item 3 below accepts this offer on the terms and conditions set out in the Deed and in this Agency Nomination Form. 
Operative provisions
Effect of the form
This Agency Nomination Form has effect as a deed between the Service Provider and the Nominated Agency named in item 3 of Table 1 when the last party executes the deed	.
Interpretation
If there is any inconsistency between this Agency Nomination Form and any other provision of the Deed, the terms and conditions in this Agency Nomination Form will prevail to the extent of any inconsistency.
 Agency Nomination Details
If there are no variations mark item 7 as ‘Not used’ and omit the following.
[Variation 1]
[insert details of how the text in the Agreement is varied. For example, delete clause X and replace with “XXX”]
Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events                                         Page 96
Execution pages of the Agency Nomination Form
EXECUTED as a deed
Note to drafter: your legal area if the Service Provider is not a company registered in Australia, so that an alternative execution block may be provided.
 Execution page	
Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events		page 98
Deed of Standing Offer for the provision of furniture, warehousing and other equipment to support Electoral Events		page 99



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Statement of Requirements - SRC006427.docx
============================================================

Schedule 1 - Statement of Requirements	
Overview
Purpose
The role of the AEC is to deliver an Australian citizen's right to vote, as established and defined by the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 (CEA).
The AEC is responsible for conducting Electoral Events and maintaining the Commonwealth electoral roll. The AEC also provides a range of electoral information and education programs and activities. These activities take place at various venues and locations across Australia.
During an Electoral Event, high volumes of furniture and equipment are hired and purchased by the AEC for use by each Division and State office. Only limited notice of an Electoral Event can be provided to the Service Provider.
In this context, the purpose of this Statement of Requirements (SoR) is to state the AEC’s requirements for Services in support of Electoral Events and invite potential suppliers to provide a solution that meets part or all of AEC’s requirements. 
About the AEC
The AEC has a three-tier office network structure comprising:
a National Office in Canberra;
6 state and two territory offices; and
currently 150 divisions located at approximately 85 locations around Australia.
	Additionally, for the conduct of an Electoral Event the AEC operates:
approximately 65 Out-Posted Centres predominantly in industrial buildings and warehouses; 
approximately 7,500 Polling Places at venues such as local schools and local halls, etc.
Further information about the AEC can be found on its website: http://www.aec.gov.au.
Definitions
In this SoR, the following additional definitions are used:
Services
Description of the Services
The AEC is seeking suitable Service Providers to provide the following Services:
Hire of furniture (e.g. tables, chairs) and/or office (e.g. water dispensers, urns, mats, lockers, etc.) and warehouse operational (e.g. pallet jacks, shelving, fencing, etc. – note, warehouse equipment exclusively at Out-Posted Centres) equipment (see Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT for further details); comprising:
delivery and collection of furniture and equipment;
unpacking/repacking and assembling furniture and equipment;
removal and disposal of packaging material;
meeting the AEC’s timeframes for Services;
dedicated account managers for critical stages within an Election Period; 
reporting on the Services; and
invoicing for the Services.
For noting: while ideally, the AEC would value Service Providers who can provide all the requirements noted in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT (i.e. all types of furniture and equipment, to all types of operation (OPCs and polling places) to all locations) the AEC understands that this may not reflect the business model of all Tenderers. 
As such, while it would value comprehensive offers (covering all operations, requirements and areas) the AEC still wishes to evaluate offers based on the industry specialisation and unique offerings reflected in the Tenderer’s submission. For example: furniture only offers, warehouse equipment only offers, purchase/l-buyback options, etc. 
The Pricing Schedules in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT reflect indicative usage totals for a future Event, while considering information from the most recent Event (Federal Election 2025), including:
a list of AEC locations and their demographic classifications
quantities
periods of hire.
Further indicative delivery graphics and profile information for statics can be found in Schedule 3 Annexure O of the RFT.
Delivery and collection of furniture and equipment to and from nominated venues and locations will generally be for fixed durations for all the required equipment. The delivery and duration requirement for some materials, however, will be staggered at OPCs (and possibly for other locations) depending on the needs for those locations (as an example, see ‘electoral furniture’ categories in the ‘Out-posted Centre’ tab of the spreadsheet template as part of Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT).
The AEC wishes to work with the successful Service Providers to develop efficient delivery patterns for furniture and equipment. This is also critical to assisting the AEC understand and plan for transport charges. Tenderers should factor time to work with AEC staff in each state to plan deliveries (e.g. milk runs) in the planning period directly prior to the election being called. 
Dedicated account manager(s) should have an appropriate level of seniority in the Service Provider’s organisation who is readily contactable and is experienced in performing a client relationship management role. They would be the primary point of contact for: 
managing the Services at a holistic level;
coordinating requests, Services and invoicing arrangements at the national level, where appropriate; and
addressing (and escalating where required) all correspondence, queries, complaints and concerns of the AEC Representative in a prompt and responsive manner.
The dedicated account manager must be available to:
liaise with the AEC Representative during Business Hours, after Business Hours, and on weekends during an Election Period; and
respond promptly to all AEC enquiries and requests.
An alternative contact person of equivalent seniority (or higher) must also be nominated by the Service Provider in the event that the dedicated account manager is not contactable.
On collection of furniture and equipment, the Service Provider must immediately notify the AEC if any AEC Material or Sensitive Election Material is found in the hired furniture or equipment. The AEC Material or Sensitive Election Material must be held securely by the Service Provider, until the AEC arranges for the collection of its material within 5 business days.
The Service Provider is expected to provide the Services in accordance with the AEC’s timeframes, specified in Table 1 below, noting the AEC will engage the Service Provider during planning stages in the lead up to a General Election to discuss this further. Final delivery timeframes will be confirmed prior to the requirement by the AEC in writing in a Work Order.
Table 1: AEC Delivery Timeframes for a General Election
Table 2 below provides an indicative schedule of the Services required from the Service Provider for the collection of hired furniture and equipment from Static Polling Places and PPVCs for a General Election.
Table 2: AEC Collection Timeframes for a General Election
The AEC may request the following Additional Services:
storage of furniture and equipment owned by the AEC; and
delivery, collection and/or transport of furniture and equipment and incidental goods and services.
The AEC may purchase Goods from the Service Provider at the prices set out in the relevant Schedule to the Agreement. A separate work order under the terms and conditions set out in the Commonwealth Contracting Suite will be established should the AEC choose to purchase any Goods. The terms and conditions for the Commonwealth Contracting Suite is at https://www.finance.gov.au/government/procurement/commonwealth-contracting-suite-ccs#ccs-terms. 
Additionally, the AEC wishes to consider options that involve the purchase of Goods from and sale-back to the Service Provider. The AEC asks Tenderers to use their industry expertise to develop options and provide pricing that allow the AEC to purchase the furniture and equipment and either retain that furniture and equipment, or, if there is no further ongoing requirement on the part of the AEC, for the Service Provider to arrange the pick-up and return of those items for a pre-agreed price. 
Should the Tenderer wish to tender for this element, the relevant pricing schedule should be added to Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT. Pricing should include the purchase price, delivery (transport and handling) pricing, sell-back pricing and pick up (transport and handling) pricing and any surcharges based on the range of furniture and equipment noted in Schedule 3 Annexure D of the RFT.
Reporting
When delivering/collecting furniture and equipment, Service Providers must:
provide reports in a format, layout and style acceptable to the AEC. 
provide daily reports during peak service periods. The content of these reports will include an itemised list of completed deliveries/collections of furniture equipment to the AEC Representative on a daily basis (via email) before 6:00pm local time;
notify the AEC Representative immediately of any variation to the delivery or collection schedules whether due to circumstances within its control or otherwise;
ensure it has sufficient transport capacity and resources to ensure optimal trip and capacity planning to ensure the minimum number of trips are made, including working with the nominated AEC representative to agree delivery and pick up timeframes prior to execution;
ensure that the AEC Representative is contacted prior to the delivery or collection of the furniture and equipment where it is anticipated that additional charges (including any surcharges, as noted in the pricing schedule) may apply, for example as a result of additional trips or weight.
Invoicing
Invoices must meet the requirements of a tax invoice as set out in the GST Act and contain the following information:
the details of the Services e.g. quantities/descriptions/locations/dates/times of the furniture delivered;
contract number;
period covered by invoice;
title and description of the Services;
the amount of any Fee Credits applicable during the invoice period; 
surcharges (including details of those surcharges e.g. justification, location, dates, times) and
any other information reasonably requested by the AEC from time to time.
Service Levels
The AEC requires the Service Provider to meet or exceed agreed Service Levels as detailed in Table 3 with final measurement levels for Service Levels to be included in the proposed agreement.
Table 3 – Draft Service Levels
Note to Tenderers: The AEC will work with the Service Provider to develop a Service Level Agreement (SLA) based on the service levels above. The SLA will involve the application of fee credits should the Service Provider fail to meet the service levels. It is expected that the Service Provider will monitor and report on its performance with the intent to meet or exceed all service levels and actively identify any areas requiring improvement.
For further guidance on the AEC’s current thoughts on developing the Service Level Agreement, please see the Annexure A – Service Level Scenario.
 Annexure A -  Service Level Scenario	
Background
The key constraint to achieving optimal outcomes for furniture and equipment hire concerns uncertainty around the timing of an Electoral Event i.e. the AEC cannot give clear notice of when the next General Election will be held. At this stage, the best information that can be provided to Service Providers on timing is that:
the earliest the next General Election can be called is 7 August 2027; and
the latest time that the next General Election can be called is 20 May 2028.
AEC will also provide guidance on subsequent Electoral Events including General Elections when known.
The Services will primarily be provided in support of three categories of venues with different levels of uncertainty surrounding their requirements:
Out-Posted Centres (OPCs): typically, premises for an OPC are leased for a longer period (e.g. 1 to 3 months) than PPVCs or Static Polling Places. As ballot papers are counted at an OPC they must be secure. There is higher certainty around the furniture/equipment requirements for an OPC.
 Pre-Poll Voting Centre (PPVC): a polling place where an elector casts a vote before Polling Day. Typically leases for PPVCs are approximately 1 month. Premises leased are mostly community centres, schools and churches. Certainty around the furniture/equipment requirements for a PPVC is low but considered better than that for Static Polling Places noting that some PPVC locations will not be finalised until after the General Election announcement has been made.
Static Polling Places: polling places set up in each Division to take the votes of electors for an Election Event i.e. the venue where voters will turn up on Polling Day. Premises for Static Polling Places are often local schools and churches. Leases for Static Polling Places are very short meaning timeframes for delivery and collection of furniture will be limited (e.g. 1-2 days). Static Polling Places have the lowest level of certainty around their furniture/equipment requirements.
Managing uncertainty
It is estimated that the AEC's requirements for approximately 80% of its furniture and equipment needs will be related to OPCs. Noting this, the AEC proposes to manage this uncertainty related to its OPC requirements by:
Engaging closely with Service Providers during planning stages. For example once leases for OPCs are finalised, the Service Provider will be provided the relevant details to help with the delivery/collection schedule; and
Work Orders for OPCs should be established relatively early in the lead up to a General Election i.e. several months prior to a General Election.
The AEC's furniture and equipment requirements for Pre-Poll Voting Centres and Static Polling Places are far more 'fluid' and cannot be fixed until after the announcement has been made. Noting that timeliness for delivery of furniture and equipment is critical, the AEC proposes to manage this uncertainty by:
Providing Service Providers maximum/minimum ranges for its furniture and equipment requirements;
Establishing Work Orders on a Not-To-Exceed basis and drawing down on their value as requirements become fixed;
Selecting Service Providers that will proactively engage with the AEC to actively manage uncertainty and risk.
Service level agreement
As Polling Day draws closer, Service Providers may be unable to meet the AEC's requirements if they have been given insufficient time and the AEC's options to approach alternative suppliers will be restricted.
To reduce the likelihood of this scenario and to better align the interests of the AEC and the Service Provider, a Service Level Agreement is at Schedule 4 of this Deed.
For the purposes of developing an effective Service Level Agreement an example of an optimal outcome for Static Polling Places in a Division is provided below.
Example of Optimal Outcome for Static Polling Places in a Division
An Election Event is announced and the Service Provider is notified. Within 7 days, most of the orders confirming the AEC's requirements are confirmed for each location within the Division. However, some orders can only be provided closer to Polling Day.
Service Providers coordinate the necessary furniture and equipment in line with AEC requirements.
Furniture and equipment is delivered to Static Polling Places with all deliveries being finalised by 8pm on the Friday before Polling Day (Saturday).
At delivery, the Service Provider unpacks the furniture, assembles the furniture, moves it to the approximate vicinity of the desired place within the Static Polling Place and then removes all packaging material.
Furniture and equipment is marked/labelled as belonging to the Service Provider.
The Service Provider obtains approval/signature from the nominated AEC representative at the site that the furniture/equipment has been delivered.
By 6pm on each day during the 2 weeks leading up to Polling Day, the Service Provider emails the relevant AEC representative of all furniture and equipment that has been delivered (Delivery Report). However, on the Friday before Polling Day, 2 Delivery Reports are provided: one at 1pm and one at 9pm.
The day following Polling Day (Sunday), collection of equipment commences at venues where this is possible - some venues may be unable to facilitate collection on Sundays. Photos are taken of any damaged furniture or equipment.
All furniture/equipment has been collected by the second day following Polling Day (Monday).
By 6pm on each collection day, the Service Provider emails the relevant AEC representative of all furniture and equipment that has been collected which includes details of any missing furniture/equipment as well as photos of damaged equipment (Collection Report).
In the following weeks, an invoice is then sent by the Service Provider to the AEC detailing all furniture and equipment that has been delivered and collected from the relevant sites. The details in this invoice can be clearly
Some potential factors leading to sub-optimal outcomes in this example are provided below:
The Service Provider is unable to meet the AEC's requirements for furniture and equipment in terms of quality and quantity leading to the AEC approaching other suppliers;
Faulty furniture or equipment is reported to the Service Provider but action taken to replace the faulty equipment is delayed;
Furniture and equipment is not marked accurately which leads to confusion during collection and preparing Collection Reports;
Invoices provide insufficient detail and do not reconcile with Collection Reports or Delivery Reports, including surcharges and levies.



============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Addendum 2 - SRC006427.pdf
============================================================

                                                                      
 
Page 1 | Addendu 2– SRC006427 
ADDENDUM  
 
ATM Number: 
SRC006427 
Addenda Number: 
2 
Title: 
Request For Tender for provision of furniture, 
warehousing and other equipment for Electoral 
Events 
Date: 
30 July 2026 
Pages to this Addendum: 
1 
Attachments to this 
Addendum: 
1 
Background: 
This addendum includes the draft agreement, revises the closing date for submissions and 
enquiries, and notifies suppliers of a new email address for further enquiries. 
Details: 
#  
 
1. Please refer to AusTender to find a copy of the draft agreement 
 
2. All submissions are to be made via AusTender by 13 August 2026, 2pm 
 
3. All enquiries must be submitted no later than 11 August 2026 
 
4. All enquiries must be directed to scmprocurement@aec.gov.au 
 
 




============================================================
DOCUMENT ATTACHMENT: Addendum 1 - SRC006427.docx
============================================================

ADDENDUM
Background:
This addendum addresses questions submitted from potential Tenderers.
Details:

